And then to sleepe but three houres in the night, And not be seene to
winke of all the day.

And then the whole quire hold their hips, and loffe, And waxen in
their mirth, and neeze, and sweare, A merrier houre was neuer wasted
there.

And then came Piramus Lys.

And then the Louer, Sighing like Furnace, with a wofull ballad Made to
his Mistresse eye-brow.

And then with kinde embracements, tempting kisses, And with declining
head into his bosome Bid him shed teares, as being ouer-ioyed To see
her noble Lord restor'd to health, Who for this seuen yeares hath
esteemed him No better then a poore and loathsome begger: And if the
boy haue not a womans guift To raine a shower of commanded teares, An
Onion wil do well for such a shift, Which in a Napkin (being close
conuei'd) Shall in despight enforce a waterie eie: See this dispatch'd
with all the hast thou canst, Anon Ile giue thee more instructions.

And then Bio.

And then to haue the humor of state: and after a demure trauaile of
regard: telling them I knowe my place, as I would they should doe
theirs: to aske for my kinsman Toby To.

And then I. comes behind Fa.

And then for the Land-seruice, to see how the Beare tore out his
shoulder-bone, how he cride to mee for helpe, and said his name was
Antigonus, a Nobleman: But to make an end of the Ship, to see how the
Sea flapdragon'd it: but first, how the poore soules roared, and the
sea mock'd them: and how the poore Gentleman roared, and the Beare
mock'd him, both roaring lowder then the sea, or weather Shep.

And then betwixt me, and my marryed Wife.

And then I stole all Courtesie from Heauen, And drest my selfe in such
Humilitie, That I did plucke Allegeance from mens hearts, Lowd Showts
and Salutations from their mouthes, Euen in the presence of the
Crowned King.

And then enter two of Titus Sonnes; After them, two men bearing a
Coffin couered with blacke, then two other Sonnes.

And then they call'd me foule Adulteresse, Lasciuious Goth, and all
the bitterest tearmes That euer eare did heare to such effect.

And then he offered it the third time; hee put it the third time by,
and still as hee refus'd it, the rabblement howted, and clapp'd their
chopt hands, and threw vppe their sweatie Night-cappes, and vttered
such a deale of stinking breath, because Caesar refus'd the Crowne,
that it had (almost) choaked Caesar: for hee swoonded, and fell downe
at it: And for mine owne part, I durst not laugh, for feare of opening
my Lippes, and receyuing the bad Ayre Cassi.

And then it started, like a guilty thing Vpon a fearfull Summons.

And then Sir does he this?

And then for her To win the Moore, were to renownce his Baptisme, All
Seales, and Simbols of redeemed sin: His Soule is so enfetter'd to her
Loue, That she may make, vnmake, do what she list, Euen as her
Appetite shall play the God, With his weake Function.

And then his banishment Iach.

And thence the inmost round marks with its seal Sodom and Cahors, and
all such as speak Contemptuously' of the Godhead in their hearts.

And then, for that perchance no longer breath Suffic'd him, of himself
and of a bush One group he made.

And then he bent Downwards his forehead, and in troubled mood Broke
off his speech.

And thence doth doubt Spring, like a shoot, around the stock of truth;
And it is nature which from height to height On to the summit prompts
us.

And then, perchance because his breath was failing, He grouped himself
together with a bush.

And then he said: 'Be not thy heart afraid; Henceforth I thee absolve;
and thou instruct me How to raze Palestrina to the ground.

And then the others, sweetly and devoutly, Accompanied it through all
the hymn entire, Having their eyes on the supernal wheels.

And then, to press myself close to the Poet, I backward, and not
forward, took a step.

And then in manner of the little flame, Which followeth the fire
where'er it shifts, After the spirit followeth its new form.

And then I heard: "The ancient and the new Postulates, that to thee
are so conclusive, Why dost thou take them for the word divine?

And then that Baron, who from branch to branch, Examining, had thus
conducted me, Till the extremest leaves we were approaching, Again
began: "The Grace that dallying Plays with thine intellect thy mouth
has opened, Up to this point, as it should opened be, So that I do
approve what forth emerged; But now thou must express what thou
believest, And whence to thy belief it was presented.

And then the organ sounds, and unseen choirs Sing the old Latin hymns
of peace and love And benedictions of the Holy Ghost; And the
melodious bells among the spires O'er all the house-tops and through
heaven above Proclaim the elevation of the Host!

And then a shift of scene.

And thenceforward Nur al-Din ceased not so to administer the Wazirate
that the Sultan would not be parted from him night or day; and
increased his stipend and supplies until his means were ample and he
became the owner of ships that made trading voyages at his command, as
well as of Mamelukes and blackamoor slaves; and he laid out many
estates and set up Persian wheels and planted gardens.

And then said he to them, "Heal my broken heart and eat of my
sweetmeats; for, by Allah, I cannot look at thee but my heart
flutters.

And then Tiphys leapt on board to urge the youths to push at the right
moment; and calling on them he shouted loudly; and they at once,
leaning with all their strength, with one push started the ship from
her place, and strained with their feet, forcing her onward; and
Pelian Argo followed swiftly; and they on each side shouted as they
rushed on.

And then the rollers groaned under the sturdy keel as they were
chafed, and round them rose up a dark smoke owing to the weight, and
she glided into the sea; but the heroes stood there and kept dragging
her back as she sped onward.

And then they came to the shore in smooth-running wains, bearing with
them many gifts, when now he had related from beginning to end the
speech which Hypsipyle had spoken when she summoned them; and the
maids readily led the men back to their homes for entertainment.

And then they made a feast in honour of the goddess on the Mount of
Bears, singing the praises of Rhea most venerable; but at dawn the
winds had ceased and they rowed away from the island.

And then he summoned to go with him the sons of Phrixus, and Telamon
and Augeias; and himself took Hermes' wand; and at once they passed
forth from the ship beyond the reeds and the water to dry land,
towards the rising ground of the plain.

And then, when thou hast heedfully sought the grace of the goddess,
retreat from the pyre; and let neither the sound of feet drive thee to
turn back, nor the baying of hounds, lest haply thou shouldst maim all
the rites and thyself fail to return duly to thy comrades.

And then he sprinkled his body, and terrible prowess entered into him,
unspeakable, dauntless; and his hands on both sides thrilled
vigorously as they swelled with strength.

And then Hera bethought her of the counsels and wrath of Zeus
concerning them.

And then, when they quote the Holy Scriptures!- anyone would say they
are St. Thomases or other doctors of the Church, observing as they do
a decorum so ingenious that in one sentence they describe a distracted
lover and in the next deliver a devout little sermon that it is a
pleasure and a treat to hear and read.

And then, what shall we say of Gasabal, the squire of Galaor, who was
so silent that in order to indicate to us the greatness of his
marvellous taciturnity his name is only once mentioned in the whole of
that history, as long as it is truthful?

And then, would not Cardenio have gone free as a madman?

And then it occurred to him how he might make one, and that was by
tearing a great strip off the tail of his shirt which hung down, and
making eleven knots on it, one bigger than the rest, and this served
him for a rosary all the time he was there, during which he repeated
countless ave-marias.

And then without waiting for any answer she left the window, though
not before she saw me take the letter and the handkerchief, and I had
by signs let her know that I would do as she bade me; and so, seeing
myself so well paid for the trouble I would have in bringing it to
you, and knowing by the address that it was to you it was sent (for,
senor, I know you very well), and also unable to resist that beautiful
lady's tears, I resolved to trust no one else, but to come myself and
give it to you, and in sixteen hours from the time when it was given
me I have made the journey, which, as you know, is eighteen leagues.

And then, how illfavoured the queen is!

And then, what do you say to the good Cirongilio of Thrace, that was
so stout and bold; as may be seen in the book, where it is related
that as he was sailing along a river there came up out of the midst of
the water against him a fiery serpent, and he, as soon as he saw it,
flung himself upon it and got astride of its scaly shoulders, and
squeezed its throat with both hands with such force that the serpent,
finding he was throttling it, had nothing for it but to let itself
sink to the bottom of the river, carrying with it the knight who would
not let go his hold; and when they got down there he found himself
among palaces and gardens so pretty that it was a wonder to see; and
then the serpent changed itself into an old ancient man, who told him
such things as were never heard.

And then it seemed as though he were slashing vigorously at the wall.

And then it is plain that whatever costs most is valued and deserves
to be valued most.

And then, what shall we say of the facility with which a born queen or
empress will give herself over into the arms of some unknown wandering
knight?

And then what shall I say of their attention to the time in which the
action they represent may or can take place, save that I have seen a
play where the first act began in Europe, the second in Asia, the
third finished in Africa, and no doubt, had it been in four acts, the
fourth would have ended in America, and so it would have been laid in
all four quarters of the globe?

And then if we turn to sacred dramas- what miracles they invent in
them!

And then when the repast is over and the tables removed, for the
knight to recline in the chair, picking his teeth perhaps as usual,
and a damsel, much lovelier than any of the others, to enter
unexpectedly by the chamber door, and herself by his side, and begin
to tell him what the castle is, and how she is held enchanted there,
and other things that amaze the knight and astonish the readers who
are perusing his history.

And then, turning to the housekeeper, he said, "Mistress housekeeper
may just as well give over saying the prayer of Santa Apollonia, for I
know it is the positive determination of the spheres that Senor Don
Quixote shall proceed to put into execution his new and lofty designs;
and I should lay a heavy burden on my conscience did I not urge and
persuade this knight not to keep the might of his strong arm and the
virtue of his valiant spirit any longer curbed and checked, for by his
inactivity he is defrauding the world of the redress of wrongs, of the
protection of orphans, of the honour of virgins, of the aid of widows,
and of the support of wives, and other matters of this kind
appertaining, belonging, proper and peculiar to the order of knight-
errantry.

And then he goes on to say: The cousin was amazed as well at Sancho's
boldness as at the patience of his master, and concluded that the good
temper the latter displayed arose from the happiness he felt at having
seen his lady Dulcinea, even enchanted as she was; because otherwise
the words and language Sancho had addressed to him deserved a
thrashing; for indeed he seemed to him to have been rather impudent to
his master, to whom he now observed, "I, Senor Don Quixote of La
Mancha, look upon the time I have spent in travelling with your
worship as very well employed, for I have gained four things in the
course of it; the first is that I have made your acquaintance, which I
consider great good fortune; the second, that I have learned what the
cave of Montesinos contains, together with the transformations of
Guadiana and of the lakes of Ruidera; which will be of use to me for
the Spanish Ovid that I have in hand; the third, to have discovered
the antiquity of cards, that they were in use at least in the time of
Charlemagne, as may be inferred from the words you say Durandarte
uttered when, at the end of that long spell while Montesinos was
talking to him, he woke up and said, 'Patience and shuffle.

And then when it comes to sleeping!

And then standing up in the boat he began in a loud voice to hurl
threats at the millers, exclaiming, "Ill-conditioned and worse-
counselled rabble, restore to liberty and freedom the person ye hold
in durance in this your fortress or prison, high or low or of whatever
rank or quality he be, for I am Don Quixote of La Mancha, otherwise
called the Knight of the Lions, for whom, by the disposition of heaven
above, it is reserved to give a happy issue to this adventure;" and so
saying he drew his sword and began making passes in the air at the
millers, who, hearing but not understanding all this nonsense, strove
to stop the boat, which was now getting into the rushing channel of
the wheels.

And then turning towards the mills he said aloud, "Friends, whoe'er ye
be that are immured in that prison, forgive me that, to my misfortune
and yours, I cannot deliver you from your misery; this adventure is
doubtless reserved and destined for some other knight.

And then, when they condescend to compose a sort of verse that was at
that time in vogue in Kandy, which they call seguidillas!

And then when they promise the Phoenix of Arabia, the crown of
Ariadne, the horses of the Sun, the pearls of the South, the gold of
Tibar, and the balsam of Panchaia!

And then, skipping, running, and capering, the girl reached the town,
but before going into the house she called out at the door, "Come out,
mother Teresa, come out, come out; here's a gentleman with letters and
other things from my good father.

And then plucking off a glove he threw it down in the middle of the
hall, and the duke picked it up, saying, as he had said before, that
he accepted the challenge in the name of his vassal, and fixed six
days thence as the time, the courtyard of the castle as the place, and
for arms the customary ones of knights, lance and shield and full
armour, with all the other accessories, without trickery, guile, or
charms of any sort, and examined and passed by the judges of the
field.

And then if among all these different sorts of music that of the
albogues is heard, almost all the pastoral instruments will be there.

And then, turning to Sancho, he said, "Forgive me, my friend, that I
led thee to seem as mad as myself, making thee fall into the same
error I myself fell into, that there were and still are knights-errant
in the world.

And then shall he be judged subject to this evil, when a filthy
humour, at every moment, cleaveth to his flesh, and gathereth there.

And then after washing his garments, and body, he shall enter into the
camp, and shall be unclean until the evening.

And then the Lord God will take away before your eyes nations that are
great and very strong, and no man shall be able to resist you.

And then hear thou in heaven their prayers, and their supplications,
and do judgment for them.

And then were discovered, they say, the ways of playing with the dice
and the knucklebones and the ball, and all the other games excepting
draughts (for the discovery of this last is not claimed by the
Lydians).

And then they had tables all around the house kivered over with
[------] caps and pincushions and ten thousand such little knick-
knacks, tryin' to sell 'em to the fellows that were bowin', and
scrapin' and kungeerin' about 'em.

And then he erected an altar to God upon his land, and he said, "Thou
art the Lord of all celestial things, and I am the lord of all earthly
things.

And then she told the duke her husband, and said, I suppose that we
were sent for that I should be dishonoured; wherefore, husband, I
counsel you, that we depart from hence suddenly, that we may ride all
night unto our own castle.

And then the king sent him plain word again, and bade him be ready and
stuff him and garnish him, for within forty days he would fetch him
out of the biggest castle that he hath.

And then Merlin was bound to come to the king.

And then the king returned unto London, and made great joy of his
victory.

And then he fell passing sore sick, so that three days and three
nights he was speechless: wherefore all the barons made great sorrow,
and asked Merlin what counsel were best.

And then Sir Ector told him all, how he was betaken him for to nourish
him, and by whose commandment, and by Merlin's deliverance.

And then the commons of Carlion arose with clubs and staves <15 CHAP.

And then they went unto council, and with them Gwenbaus, the brother
unto Sir Ban and Bors, a wise clerk, and thither went Ulfius and
Brastias, and Merlin.

And then they made an oath.

And then the eleven kings and knights put them on a heap all together,
as men adread and out of all comfort.

And then Merlin said unto Arthur, These eleven kings have more on hand
than they are ware of, for the Saracens are landed in their countries,
more than forty thousand, that burn and slay, and have laid siege at
the castle Wandesborow, and make great destruction; therefore dread
you not this three year.

And then had these three kings great cheer of King Leodegrance, that
thanked them of their great goodness, that they would revenge him of
his enemies; and there had Arthur the first sight of Guenever, the
king's daughter of Cameliard, and ever after he loved her.

And then the king let make a feast that lasted eight days.

And then she said unto the knight, Sir, it needeth not to put me to
more pain or labour, for it seemeth not you to speed there as other
have failed.

And then Balan and his brother took their leave of King Mark.

And then they advanced banners and smote together and all to-shivered
their spears; and Arthur's knights, with the help of the Knight with
the Two Swords and his brother Balan put King Lot and his host to the
worse.

And then all the host of Orkney fled for the death of King Lot, and
there were slain many mothers' sons.

And then Balin called unto him his host, saying, Now may ye fetch
blood enough to heal your son withal.

And then he looked on his armour, and understood he was well armed,
and therewith blessed him and mounted upon his horse.

And then the king and the queen by Merlin's advice made him to swear
to tell of his adventures, and so he told and made proofs of his deeds
as it is afore rehearsed, wherefore the king and the queen made great
joy.

And then he sent for the queen, and soon she was come, and she made
great joy of the overcoming of that battle.

And then she let throw the scabbard in the deepest of the water so it
sank, for it was heavy of gold and precious stones.

And then he looked for the scabbard, but it would not be found, so he
returned to the abbey where he came from.

And then he rode unto Morgan again, and asked if she would anything
unto King Arthur.

And then he said unto the damosel that came from his sister, Damosel,
this mantle that ye have brought me, I will see it upon you.

And then was Sir Gawaine ware how there hung a white shield on that
tree, and ever as the damosels came by it they spit upon it, and some
threw mire upon the shield.

And then when it was past noon, and when it drew toward evensong, Sir
Gawaine's strength feebled, and waxed passing faint that unnethes he
might dure any <130>longer, and Sir Marhaus was then bigger and
bigger.

And then they rode to them, and either saluted other, and the eldest
had a garland of gold about her head, and she was three score winter
of age or more, and her hair was white under the garland.

And then he was ware of Sir Gawaine, and saluted him, and prayed God
to send him much worship.

And then they began to strive for the lady; for the knight said he
would have her, and the dwarf said he would have her.

And then the knight prayed Sir Gawaine to lodge with him that night.

And then Sir Gawaine said, I am of the court of King Arthur, and his
sister's son, and King Lot of Orkney was my father, and my name is Sir
Gawaine.

And then he said, My name is Sir Pelleas, born in the Isles, and of
many isles I am lord, and never have I loved lady nor damosel till now
in an unhappy time; and, sir knight, since ye are so nigh cousin unto
King Arthur, and a king's son, therefore betray me not but help me,
for I may never come by her but by some good knight, for she is in a
strong castle here, fast by within this four mile, and over all this
country she is lady of.

And then they take my horse and harness and put me out of the gates,
and she will not suffer me to eat nor drink; and always I offer me to
be her prisoner, but that she will not suffer me, for I would desire
no more, what pains so ever I had, so that I might have a sight of her
daily.

And then he yede to the third pavilion and found Sir Gawaine lying in
bed with his Lady Ettard, and either clipping other in arms, and when
he saw that his heart well-nigh brast for sorrow, and said: Alas!

And then his horse was led into the stable, and he and the damosel
were brought into the hall, and there stood a mighty duke and many
goodly men about him.

And then said the duke to him, That me sore repenteth: the cause is
this, for I love not thy lord nor none of thy <142>fellows of the
Table Round; and therefore ease thyself this night as well as thou
mayest, for as to-morn I and my six sons shall match with you.

And then some of his sons recovered, and would have set upon Sir
Marhaus; then Sir Marhaus said to the duke, Cease thy sons, or else I
will do the uttermost to you all.

And then they helped up their father, and so by their cominal assent
promised to Sir Marhaus never to be foes unto King Arthur, and
thereupon at Whitsuntide after to come, he and his sons, and put them
in the king's grace.

And then Sir Marhaus made the Earl Fergus' man to fetch him stones,
and with those stones the knight gave the giant many sore knocks, till
at the last he made him fall down into the water, and so was he there
dead.

And then he spurred his horse and came upon Sir Hue and overthrew him,
but they soon recovered and dressed their shields and drew their
swords and bade Sir Uwaine alight and do his battle to the uttermost.

And then were they all glad, and so prayed they Sir Marhaus to ride
with them to the king's court.

And then every man agreed to make war, and to aid after their power;
that is to wit, the lord of West Wales promised to bring thirty
thousand men, and Sir Uwaine, Sir Ider his son, with their cousins,
promised to bring thirty thousand.

And then he commanded his treasurer to give to them great and large
gifts, and to pay all their dispenses, and assigned Sir Cador to
convey them out of the land.

And then anon he made him ready, and armed him at all points, and took
his horse and his shield.

And then Arthur weltered and wrung, that he was other while under and
another time above.

And then the king commanded Sir Kay to smite off the giant's head, and
to set it upon a truncheon of a spear, and bear it to Sir Howell, and
tell him that his enemy was slain; and after let this head be bound to
a barbican that all the people may see and behold it; and go ye two up
to the mountain, and fetch me my shield, my sword, and the club of
iron; and as for the treasure, take ye it, for ye shall find there
goods out of number; so I have the kirtle and the club I desire no
more.

And then Sir Gawaine and Sir Bors did their message, and commanded
Lucius, in Arthur's name to avoid his land, or shortly to address him
to battle.

And then Sir Launcelot with such knights as he had, and men of war to
the number of ten thousand, put them in array, and met with them and
fought with them manly, and slew and detrenched many of the Romans,
and slew many knights and admirals of the party of the Romans and
Saracens; there <162>was slain the king of Lyly and three great lords,
Aladuke, Herawd, and Heringdale.

And then the emperor fell down dead and there ended his life.

And then with a trumpet were they all assembled to council, and there
Priamus told unto them what lords and knights had sworn to rescue him,
and that without fail they should be assailed with many thousands,
wherefore he counselled them to withdraw them.

And then the senators made ready for his enthronization.

And then he thought himself to prove himself in strange adventures,
then he bade his nephew, Sir Lionel, for to make him ready; for we two
will seek adventures.

And then the weather was hot about noon, and Sir Launcelot had great
lust to sleep.

And then he rode unto the second knight, and smote him so that man and
horse fell down.

And then straight to the third knight he rode, and smote him behind
his horse's arse a spear length.

And then he alighted down and reined his horse on the bridle, and
bound all the three knights fast with the reins of their own bridles.

And then he gart to unarm him, and beat him with thorns all naked, and
sithen put him down in a deep dungeon, where he knew many of his
fellows.

And then he yielded him unto Sir Launcelot, and so he granted him, so
that he would tell him why he came into the bed.

And then she made Launcelot passing good cheer, and she said he was
the knight in the world was most welcome to her.

And then the three knights of Arthur's stood by themselves.

And then he gat another great spear, and smote down twelve knights,
and the most part of them never throve after.

And then the knights of the King of Northgalis would joust no more.

And then was he ware of a great knight that drove an horse afore him,
and overthwart the horse there lay an armed knight bound.

And then he rode in a deep forest two days and more, and had strait
lodging.

And then he mounted upon his horse, and rode into many strange and
wild countries, and through many waters and valleys, and evil was he
lodged.

And then they all three left Sir Kay, and turned unto Sir Launcelot,
and there began great battle, for they alighted all three, and struck
many great strokes at Sir Launcelot, and assailed him on every side.

And then anon within six strokes, Sir Launcelot had stricken them to
the earth.

And then they all three cried: Sir knight, we yield us unto you as a
man of might makeless.

And then Sir Launcelot knocked at the gate with the pommel of his
sword, and with that came his host, and in they entered Sir Kay and
he.

And then he espied that he had his armour and his horse.

And then soon after departed Sir Kay and thanked his host.

And then Sir Launcelot rode after.

And then was he ware of an old manor, and thither ran the brachet, and
so over the bridge.

And then he saw a fair sword lie by the dead knight, and that he gat
in his hand and hied him out of the chapel.

And then they rode unto a castle thereby where lay Sir Meliot.

And then he wiped his wounds with a part of the bloody cloth that Sir
Gilbert was wrapped in, and anon an wholer man in his life was he
never.

And then was he ware of a falcon came flying over his head toward an
high elm, and long lunes about her feet, and as she flew unto the elm
to take her perch the lunes over-cast about a bough.

And then he came lower and awaited how his own horse stood, and
suddenly he leapt on the further side of the horse, fro-ward the
knight.

And then Sir Phelot lashed at him eagerly, weening to have slain him.

And then she swooned as though she would <205>die.

And then Sir Meliot de Logres came home, and told the king how Sir
Launcelot had saved him from the death.

And then Sir Launcelot after meat bade him come to his chamber, and
there he should have meat and drink enough.

And then he bade his dwarf stert upon Sir Kay's horse, and so he did.

And then Beaumains threw his shield from him, and proffered to fight
with Sir Launcelot on foot; and so they rushed together like boars,
tracing, rasing, and foining to the mountenance of an hour; and Sir
Launcelot felt him <215>so big that he marvelled of his strength, for
he fought more liker a giant than a knight, and that his fighting was
durable and passing perilous.

And then Sir Launcelot gave him the order of knighthood, and then Sir
Gareth prayed him for to depart and let him go.

And then he spurred his horse <218>upon the land, where the other
knight fell upon him, and brake his spear, and so they drew their
swords and fought long together.

And then he took a great horse, and a green shield and a green spear.

And then they drew their swords, and gave many sad strokes, and either
of them wounded other full ill. And at the last, at an overthwart,
Beaumains with his horse struck the Green Knight's horse upon the
side, that he fell to the earth.

And then the Green Knight avoided his horse lightly, and dressed him
upon foot.

And then the Green Knight cried him mercy, and yielded him unto Sir
Beaumains, and prayed him to slay him not.

And then the Green Knight kneeled down, and did him homage with his
sword.

And then she cried on high to the Red Knight, Alas, thou noble Red
Knight, think what worship hath followed thee, let never a kitchen
knave endure thee so long as he doth.

And then shall we come to the siege by daylight.

And then they took their horses and rode throughout a fair forest; and
then they came to a plain, and saw where were many pavilions and
tents, and a fair castle, and there was much smoke and great noise;
and when they came near the siege Sir Beaumains espied upon great
trees, as he rode, how there hung full goodly armed knights by the
neck, and their shields about their necks with their swords, and gilt
spurs upon their heels, and so there hung nigh a forty knights
shamefully with full rich arms.

And then they rode to the dykes, and saw them double dyked with full
warlike walls; and there were lodged many great lords nigh the walls;
and there was great noise of minstrelsy; and the sea beat upon the one
side of the walls, where were many ships and mariners' noise with
``hale and how.

And then there leapt out knights out of their tents and pavilions, and
they within the castle looked over the walls and out at windows.

And then when Sir Beaumains' helm was off, he looked up to the window,
and there he saw the fair lady Dame Lionesse, and she made him such
countenance that his heart waxed light and jolly; and therewith he
bade the Red Knight of the Red Launds make him ready, and let us do
the battle to the utterance.

And then the maiden Linet came to Sir Beaumains, and unarmed him and
searched his wounds, and stinted his blood, and in likewise she did to
the Red Knight of the Red Launds.

And then he departed unto the court of King Arthur, and there openly
the Red Knight of the Red Launds put him in the mercy of Sir Launcelot
and Sir Gawaine, and there he told openly how he was overcome and by
whom, and also he told all the battles from the beginning unto the
<242>ending.

And then it happened him to come to a poor man's house, and there he
was harboured all that night.

And then when ye <244>have brought him unto your castle, I will have
him in examination myself.

And then when he saw Sir Beaumains fast asleep, he came stilly
stalking behind the dwarf, and plucked him fast under his arm, and so
he rode away with him as fast as ever he might unto his own castle.

And then Sir Gareth alighted, and there came his dwarf and took his
horse.

And then the noble knight Sir Gareth went unto the Dame Lionesse,
which he then much loved, and kissed her many times, and either made
great joy of other.

And then they troth-plight each other to love, and never to fail
whiles their life lasteth.

And then he looked afore him, and there he apperceived and saw come an
armed knight, with many lights about him; and this knight had a long
gisarm in his hand, and made grim countenance to smite him.

And then he bled so fast that he might not stand, but so he laid him
down upon his bed, and there he swooned and lay as he had been dead.

And then was Sir Gareth staunched of his bleeding.

And then he kneeled down unto Sir Launcelot, and to Sir Gawaine, and
prayed them of forgiveness of his enmity that ever he had against
them.

And then he asked me three gifts; and one he asked the same day, that
was that I would give him meat enough that twelvemonth; and the other
two gifts he asked that day a twelvemonth, and that was that he might
have the adventure of the damosel Linet, and the third was that Sir
Launcelot should make him knight when he desired him.

And then the lady Dame Lionesse was sent for, thereas she was with Sir
Gringamore her brother and Sir Gareth.

And then she laid an ointment and a salve to him as it pleased to her,
that he was never so fresh nor so lusty.

And then his nephews Sir Uwaine le Blanchemains, and Sir Aglovale, Sir
Tor, Sir Percivale de Galis, and Sir Lamorak de Galis.

And then Sir Gareth prayed Dame Lionesse and the Red Knight of the Red
Launds, and Sir Persant and his brother, and Sir Gringamore, that in
no wise there should none of them tell not his name, and make no more
of him than of the least knight that there was, For, he said, I will
not be known of neither more nor less, neither at the beginning
neither at the ending.

And then came in Sir Palamides out of the castle, and there
encountered with him Gawaine, and either of them smote other so hard
that both the good knights and their horses fell to the earth.

And then knights of either party rescued their knights.

And then came in Sir Safere and Sir Segwarides, brethren to Sir
Palamides; and there encountered Sir Agravaine with Sir Safere and Sir
Gaheris encountered with Sir Segwarides.

And then came into the field Sir Perimones, the Red Knight, Sir
Persant's brother, that was a knight of the castle, and he encountered
with Sir Ector de Maris, and either smote other so hard that both
their horses and they fell to the earth.

And then came in the Red Knight of the Red Launds, and Sir Gareth,
from the castle, and there encountered with them Sir Bors de Ganis and
Sir Bleoberis, and there the Red Knight and Sir Bors [either] smote
other so hard that their spears brast, and their horses fell
grovelling to the earth.

And then came King Carados of Scotland, and Sir Gareth smote him down
horse and man.

And then came in Sir Bagdemagus, and Sir Gareth smote him down, horse
and man, to the earth.

And then Sir Galahault, the noble prince, cried on high: Knight with
the many colours, well hast thou jousted; now make thee ready that I
may joust with thee.

And then came in Sir Gareth, and knew that it was Sir Launcelot that
fought with the two perilous knights.

And then Sir Gareth came with his good horse and hurtled them in-
sunder, and no stroke would he smite to Sir Launcelot.

And then Sir Tristram, Sir Ironside, Sir Persant, and his brother,
rode together for to help Sir Gareth; and then there were given many
strong strokes.

And then Sir Gareth rode out on the one side to amend his helm; and
then said his dwarf: Take me your ring, that ye lose it not while that
ye drink.

And then when Sir Gareth was in the field all folks saw him well and
plainly that he was in yellow colours; and there he rased off helms
and pulled down knights, that King Arthur had marvel what knight he
was, for the king saw by his hair that it was the same knight.

And then they all wist not where he was become; and Sir Gawaine had in
manner espied where Sir Gareth rode, and then he rode after with all
his might.

And then fell there a thunder and a rain, as heaven and earth should
go together.

And then the page saw where came the Brown Knight: Lo, said the page,
yonder he cometh.

And then Sir Gareth recomforted his mother in such wise that she
recovered and made good cheer.

And then by the means of the damosel Savage Sir Gawaine and Sir Gareth
were healed of their wounds; and there they sojourned eight days.

And then Sir Gareth sent his summons to all these knights and ladies
that he had won in battle to-fore, that they should be at his day of
marriage at Kink Kenadon by the sands.

And then Dame Lionesse, and the damosel Linet with Sir Gringamore,
rode to their castle; and a goodly and a rich ring she gave to Sir
Gareth, and he gave her another.

And then this Sir Perimones prayed Sir Gareth to grant him to be his
chief butler at that high feast.

And then he asked Sir Gareth to be his carver.

And then they let carry home the dead queen, and much dole was made
for her.

And then he let call him Tristram, the sorrowful born child.

And then he took her by the hand, and said: Thou false traitress, thou
shalt tell me what manner of drink this is, or else I shall slay thee.

And then she told him why she would have slain Tristram, because her
children should rejoice his land.

And then when he well could speak the language, and had learned all
that he might learn in that country, then he came home to his father,
King Meliodas, again.

And then the King Meliodas had great joy of Sir Tristram, and so had
the queen, his wife.

And then he called unto him Sir Marhaus, the good knight, that was
nobly proved, and a Knight of the Table Round.

And then he made him ready to ride into Cornwall.

And then the same squire that brought the letter and the brachet came
again unto Sir Tristram, as after ye shall hear in the tale.

And then King Mark sent unto Sir Marhaus, and did him to wit that a
better born man than he was himself should fight with him, and his
name is Sir Tristram de Liones, gotten of King Meliodas, and born of
King Mark's sister.

And then when he had so done he mounted upon his horse; and when he
was in his saddle well apparelled, and his shield dressed upon his
shoulder, Tristram asked Gouvernail, Where is this knight that I shall
have ado withal?

And then they lashed together as men that were wild and courageous.

And then he set him down softly upon a little hill, and bled fast.

And then was he searched in the best manner, and laid in his bed.

And then when the damosel knew certainly that he was not Sir
Launcelot, then she took her leave, and departed <296>from him.

And then Sir Tristram rode privily unto the postern, where kept him La
Beale Isoud, and there she made him good cheer, and thanked God of his
good speed.

And then by unhap the queen drew out his sword and beheld it a long
while, and both they thought it a passing fair sword; but within a
foot and an half of the point there was a great piece thereof out-
broken of the edge.

And then the queen gripped that sword in her hand fiercely, and with
all her might she ran straight upon Tramtrist where he sat in his
bain, and there she had rived him through had not Sir Hebes gotten her
in his arms, and pulled the sword from her, and else she had thrust
him through.

And then he told her all, what he was, and how he had changed his name
because he would not be known, and how a lady told him that he should
never be whole till he came into this country where the <299>poison
was made, wherethrough I was near my death had not your ladyship been.

And then Sir Tristram gave her a ring, and she gave him another; and
therewith he departed from her, leaving her making great dole and
lamentation; and he straight went unto the court among all the barons,
and there he took his leave at most and least, and openly he said
among them all: Fair lords, now it is so that I must depart: if there
be any man here that I have offended unto, or that any man be with me
grieved, let complain him here afore me or that ever I depart, and I
shall amend it unto my power.

And then largely King Meliodas and his queen departed of their lands
and goods to Sir Tristram.

And then Sir Tristram feutred his spear, and smote his uncle, King
Mark, so sore, that he rashed him to the earth, and bruised him that
he lay still in a swoon, and long it was or ever he might wield
himself.

And then he ran to the one knight, and eft to the other, and smote
them to the cold earth, that they lay still.

And then was he ware before him in a valley where rode Sir Bleoberis,
with Sir Segwarides' lady, that rode behind his squire upon a palfrey.

And then he imagined in himself to send Sir Tristram into Ireland for
La Beale Isoud.

And then for despite Sir Ector put off his armour from him, and went
on foot, and would not ride.

And then Sir Tristram bade him turn and give again the child.

And then he yielded him unto Sir Tristram.

And then, by all their advices, Sir Tristram and Sir Bleoberis took up
Sir Blamore, and the two brethren were accorded with King Anguish, and
kissed and made friends for ever.

And then Sir Blamore and Sir Tristram kissed together, and there they
made their oaths that they would never none of them two brethren fight
with Sir Tristram, and Sir Tristram made the same oath.

And then anon Sir Tristram took the sea, and La Beale Isoud; and when
they were in their cabin, it happed so that they were thirsty, and
they saw a little flasket of gold stand by <319>them, and it seemed by
the colour and the taste that it was noble wine.

And then he said: Take your rest, and look that ye be up betimes and
make you ready and your lady, for ye shall want no thing that you
behoveth.

And then all they that longed to the castle came to him, and did him
homage and fealty, praying him that he would abide there still a
little while to fordo that foul custom.

And then they avoided their horses as noble knights, and dressed their
shields, and drew their swords with ire and rancour, and they lashed
together many sad strokes, and one while striking, another while
foining, tracing and traversing as noble knights; thus they fought
long, near half a day, and either were sore wounded.

And then Sir Launcelot bade Sir Carados: Lay down that knight and
fight with me.

And then he bound Sir Gawaine hand and foot, and so threw him to the
ground.

And then he gat his spear of his squire, and departed from Sir
Launcelot to fetch his course.

And then Sir Launcelot unbound Sir Gawaine.

And then hastily the king answered: Take her with the adventures that
shall fall of it, for as I suppose thou wilt not enjoy her no while.

And then Sir Lambegus armed him, and rode after as fast as he might.

And then within a while he overtook Sir Palamides.

And then Sir Palamides left the queen.

And then they hurtled together and all to- brast their spears, and
then they pulled out their <329>swords, and hewed on helms and
hauberks.

And then he rode forth, and there he found Sir Adtherp sore wounded,
and he told him how the queen would have drowned herself had he not
been, and how for her sake and love he had taken upon him to do battle
with Sir Palamides.

And then the King cried: Where are my knights and my men?

And then King Mark fled, and Sir Tristram followed him, and smote upon
him five or six strokes flatling on the neck, that he made him to fall
upon the nose.

And then Sir Tristram yede his way and armed him, and took his horse
and his man, and so he rode into that forest.

And then the king and the queen went a-hunting, and Sir Tristram.

And then he bade Sir Tristram: Alight, thou knight, an thou durst.

And then Sir Tristram asked them where was La Beale Isoud, for he
weened she had been had away of Andred's people.

And then when Sir Tristram came toward the old manor he found the
track of many horses, and thereby he wist his lady was gone.

And then Sir Tristram took great sorrow, and endured with great pain
long time, for the arrow that he was hurt withal was envenomed.

And then, at the last, by great might and force, he slew the Earl Grip
with his own hands, and more than an hundred knights he slew that day.

And then Sir Tristram was received worshipfully with procession.

And then he took such a <340>thought suddenly that he was all
dismayed, and other cheer made he none but with clipping and kissing;
as for other fleshly lusts Sir Tristram never thought nor had ado with
her: such mention maketh the French book; also it maketh mention that
the lady weened there had been no pleasure but kissing and clipping.

And then either saluted other.

And then Sir Segwarides delivered all prisoners, and set good
governance in that valley; and so he returned into Cornwall, and told
King Mark and La Beale Isoud how Sir Tristram had advanced him to the
Isle of Servage, and there he proclaimed in all Cornwall of all the
adventures of these two knights, so was it openly known.

And then Sir Lamorak went betwixt them, and asked them why they would
slay that one <347>knight, and said it was shame, four against one.

And then they lashed all at once to Sir Lamorak, but anon at two
strokes Sir Lamorak had slain two of them, and then the other two
fled.

And then said Sir Gawaine: What will ye do with me?

And then Sir Lamorak kneeled down, and unlaced first his umberere, and
then his own, and then either kissed other with weeping tears.

And then they sware together that none of them should never fight
against other.

And then they came afore the Castle Orgulous, and there was such a
custom that there might no knight come by that castle but either he
must joust or be prisoner, or at the least to lose his horse and his
harness.

And then La Cote Male Taile jousted with that other, and either of
them <356>smote other down, horse and all, to the earth.

And then La Cote Male Taile rode unto that knight that smote down Sir
Mordred, and jousted with him.

And then she went unto her chamber slily again for to behold how that
one knight fought against an hundred knights.

And then the five knights set upon him all at once with their spears,
and there they smote La Cote Male Taile down, horse and man.

And then they alighted suddenly, and set their hands upon him all at
once, and took him prisoner, and so led him unto the castle and kept
him as prisoner.

And then that knight yielded him, and Sir Launcelot received him fair.

And then Sir Nerovens told Sir Launcelot that he should not go by the
Castle of Pendragon: For there is a lord, a mighty knight, and many
knights with him, and this night I heard say that they took a knight
prisoner yesterday that rode with a damosel, and they say he is a
Knight of the Round Table.

And then Sir Launcelot passed through them, and lightly he turned in
again, and smote another knight through the breast and throughout the
back more than an ell, and therewithal his spear brake.

And then they feutred their spears and hurled together so strongly
that both their horses rashed to the earth.

And then they avoided their saddles, and dressed their shields, and
drew their swords, and flang together as wood men, and there were many
strokes given in a while.

And then they within the castle marvelled what knight he was, when Sir
Brian and his knights delivered all those prisoners.

And then when he felt himself so wounded, then he doubled his strokes,
and gave them so many wounds that he felled them to the earth, and
would have slain them had they not yielded them.

And then they avoided their horses, and dressed their shields, and
drew their swords, and gave many sad strokes, and one while the one
knight was afore on the bridge, and another while the other.

And then he commanded him the wine, and made to search him and to stop
his bleeding wounds.

And then said Sir Launcelot: I know thee well for a good knight, but
wit thou well thy life and death is in my hand, and therefore yield
thee to me, and thy prisoner.

And then Sir La Cote Male Taile came to Sir Launcelot, and then Sir
Launcelot would have given him all these fortresses and these bridges.

And then Sir Launcelot sent for Nerovens that he made once knight, and
he made him to have all the rule of that castle and of that country,
under La Cote Male Taile; and so they rode to Arthur's court all
wholly together.

And then he let ordain privily a little vessel, and therein they went,
Sir Tristram, Kehydius, Dame Bragwaine, and Gouvernail, Sir Tristram's
squire.

And then he took a great spear of his squire, and departed his way a
furlong.

And then that knight took a greater spear in his hand, and encountered
with Sir Tristram, <369>and there by great force that knight smote
down Sir Tristram from his horse and had a great fall.

And then Sir Tristram required that knight of his knighthood to alight
upon foot and fight with him.

And then said Sir Tristram to Sir Lamorak: I require you if ye hap to
meet with Sir Palomides, say him that he shall find me at the same
well where I met him, and there I, Sir Tristram, shall prove whether
he be better knight than I.

And then Sir Lamorak asked Sir Launcelot if there were anything that
he might do for him in these marches.

And then Sir Lamorak asked him why he loved Queen Guenever as he did:
For I was not far from you when ye made your complaint by the chapel.

And then they came riding together as it had been thunder, and either
smote other so sore that their horses fell backward to the earth.

And then they avoided their horses, and dressed their shields, and
drew their swords.

And then they hurtled together as wild boars, and thus they fought a
great while.

And then Sir Launcelot rode betwixt them, and asked them for what
cause they fought so together: And ye are both knights of King Arthur!

And then they two rode to their lodging, and there they found Sir
Brandiles, and Sir Tor came thither anon after.

And then Sir Tristram horsed King Arthur and rode forth with him, but
he charged the Lady of the Lake not to discover his name as at that
time.

And then privily he wrote unto her letters and ballads of the most
goodliest that were used in those days.

And then he sent a squire unto the hurt knight, and commanded him to
come to him, and so he did.

And then was it three days or that she could find him, and then she
brought him meat and drink, but he would none; and then another time
Sir Tristram escaped away from the damosel, and it happed him to ride
by the same castle where Sir Palomides and Sir Tristram did battle
when La Beale Isoud departed them.

And then was he naked and waxed lean and poor of flesh; and so he fell
in the fellowship of herdmen and shepherds, and daily they would give
him some of their meat and drink.

And then he wrast his sword out of his hand, and therewith he ran to
one of his squires and smote off his head, and the other fled.

And then a squire told the queen that he was in the garden taking his
rest, and reposing him against the sun.

And then he turned away his visage and wept.

And then he let call his barons to judge Sir Tristram to the death.

And then he prayed Sir Tristram to give him leave to go in his
<389>fellowship.

And then Sir Tristram would have jousted with Sir Bors, and Sir Bors
said that he would not joust with no Cornish knights, for they are not
called men of worship; and all this was done upon a bridge.

And then Sir Tristram and Sir Dinadan departed from them into a
forest, and there met them a damosel that came for the love of Sir
Launcelot to seek after some noble knights of King Arthur's court for
to rescue Sir Launcelot.

And then he did bid Sir Gaheris stand aside with that knight that hath
no list to fight.

And then by one assent Sir Gaheris and Sir Dinadan went betwixt them,
and departed them in-sunder.

And then by assent of Sir Tristram they would have lodged together.

And then he cursed the time that ever he came in their
<394>fellowship, and so he took his horse, and his harness, and
departed.

And then Sir Launcelot praised Sir Tristram, and called him the man of
most worship in the world.

And then they were glad of Sir Gawaine, and he of them, but they wist
not what he was with the shield of Cornwall, but by deeming.

And then they were ware of Sir Breuse Saunce Pite chasing a lady for
to have slain her, for he had slain her paramour afore.

And then Sir Gawaine rode betwixt Sir Breuse and the lady, and said:
False knight, leave her, and have ado with me.

And then Sir Tristram took his horse and sought lodging, and there he
met with a good ancient knight and prayed him to lodge with him.

And then these two knights each welcomed other.

And then was Sir Tristram ware of a likely knight riding upon a great
black horse, and a black-covered shield.

And then was Sir Bleoberis wroth, and gat a spear and rode against Sir
Tristram in great ire; and there Sir Tristram met with him, and smote
Sir Bleoberis from his horse So then the King with the Hundred Knights
was wroth, and he horsed Sir Bleoberis and Sir Gaheris again, and
there began a great medley; and ever Sir Tristram held them passing
short, and ever Sir Bleoberis was passing busy upon Sir Tristram; and
there came Sir Dinadan against Sir Tristram, and Sir Tristram gave him
such a buffet that he swooned <404>in his saddle.

And then King Arthur blew to lodging.

And then Sir Tristram smote on the right hand and on the left hand,
that all lords and ladies spake of his noble deeds.

And then he came with his fellowship and rescued Sir Tristram, and
brought him away from those knights that bare the shields of Cornwall.

And then Sir Tristram saw another fellowship by themself, and there
were a forty knights together, and Sir Kay, the Seneschal, was their
governor.

And then the King with the Hundred Knights and an hundred more of
North Wales set upon the twenty of Sir Launcelot's kin: and they
twenty knights held them ever together as wild swine, and none would
fail other.

And then suddenly Sir Tristram, Sir Dinadan, and Gouvernail, his man,
rode their way into the forest, that no man perceived where they went.

And then in all the field was a noise that with the wind it might be
heard two mile thence, how the lords and ladies cried: The Knight with
the Black Shield hath won the field.

And then he gat his sword in his hands, and made many strange signs
and tokens; and so through his raging he threw his sword into that
fountain.

And then upon the morn the king blew unto the tournament upon the
third day.

And then by force of King Arthur's knights the King and Sir Palomides
were horsed again.

And then he gat a great spear in his hand and came towards the cry.

And then Sir Tristram was ware that Sir Palomides came to have
destroyed him.

And then anon hastily he armed him, and took his horse, and a great
spear in his hand, and said to Sir Dinadan: Adieu; and rode toward Sir
Palomides a soft pace.

And then Sir Tristram rode his way and left Sir Persides' squire
within the pavilions, and Sir Tristram and Sir Dinadan rode to an old
knight's place to lodge them.

And then Sir Breuse fled, and Sir Launcelot followed after him.

And then Sir Launcelot returned unto Dame Bragwaine, and she thanked
him of his great labour.

And then Sir Tristram saw none other bote, but rode against him, and
overthrew Sir Uwaine and hurt him in the side, and so he departed unto
his lodging again.

And then the king made a feast royal, and to that feast came Sir
Uwaine le Fise de Roy Ureine, and some called him Uwaine le
Blanchemains.

And then he rode afore Sir Uwaine, and suddenly at a gap he ran upon
him as he that was not ware of him, and there he smote him almost
through the body, and there left him.

And then Sir Gaheris took his leave of King Mark, but or he departed
he said: Sir king, ye did a foul shame unto you and your court, when
ye banished Sir Tristram out of this country, for ye needed not to
have doubted no knight an he had been here.

And then he let call his nephew Sir Andred, and bade arm him and horse
him lightly; and by that time it was midnight.

And then they yode both on foot to them, and bade them yield them, and
tell their names outher they should die.

And then he kneeled adown, and made his oath upon the cross of the
sword, that never while he lived he would be against errant-knights.

And then his lady and paramour cried sir Dinas mercy, and said she
would love him better than ever she did.

And then anon Sir Darras saw Sir Tristram brought afore him.

And then he said: Sir knight, keep thee from me.

And then anon that damosel picked her away privily, that no man wist
where she was become.

And then to dwell in sovereign barns, And dream the days away, -- The
grass so little has to do, I wish I were the hay!

"And then I have thought that considering three months' lodging, about
which I have said nothing--" "Yes, yes; you have already given me that
reason, and I find it excellent."

"And then?"

"And then the queen?"

"And then?"

And then," said Aramis, pinching his ear to make it red, as he rubbed
his hands to make them white, "and then I made a certain RONDEAU upon
it last year, which I showed to Monsieur Voiture, and that great man
paid me a thousand compliments.

And then commenced a roar of laughter in which they all joined, to the
astonishment of poor Porthos; but when he was informed of the cause of
their hilarity, he shared it vociferously according to his custom.

And then he--a wanderer on the earth, a man without fortune, a man
without family, a soldier accustomed to inns, cabarets, taverns, and
restaurants, a lover of wine forced to depend upon chance treats--was
about to partake of family meals, to enjoy the pleasures of a
comfortable establishment, and to give himself up to those little
attentions which "the harder one is, the more they please," as old
soldiers say.

And then accompanying the glance with explanatory words, "That is but
too just," said she, tenderly.

And then," continued Mme.

And then, and then, We wandered to the Hills, And so the Little Less
became Much More.

And then the fray began.

"And then--and then, Your Honor, we carried him in to his house and
gave him water, and put wet cloths on the wound, and he laid down in
his house and gave up the ghost."

And then?

And then, Guy, and then, that girl needs ten times the love and trust
and honor--yes, honor--that was enough when she was only a mere wife
if--if--the other life she chooses to lead is to be made even
bearable.

"And then--oh, then," said Dick, still capering, "we will spoil the
Egyptians!"

And then there was always the glory and the money for thee.

And then this man came up and began chopping at me as I sprawled.

And then there's The Butcha.

And then?

And then she said she would beck us with her hand.-- Back with these
boys and saucy great knaves!

"And then?"

And then, you will not escape the spur of the Nautilus.

"And then breakfast, sir?"

And then they began to fish.

And then maketh prayer to it, enquiring concerning his substance, and
his children, or his marriage.

And then come, and accuse me, saith the Lord: if your sins be as
scarlet, they shall be made as white as snow: and if they be red as
crimson, they shall be white as wool.

And then the Lord will shew these things, and the majesty of the Lord
shall appear, and there shall be a cloud as it was also shewed to
Moses, and he shewed it when Solomon prayed that the place might be
sanctified to the great God.

And then shall the Most High say to the nations that are raised from
the dead, See ye and understand whom ye have denied, or whom ye have
not served, or whose commandments ye have despised.

And then they had come to Erythrai in Bœotia, then they learnt that
the Barbarians were encamping on the Asopos, and having perceived this
they ranged themselves over against them on the lower slopes of
Kithairon.

And then there is an important discovery in his example--the art of
being paid for what one eats, instead of having to pay for it.

And then their fury against him increased, they beat him and
maltreated him, and he wept bitter tears.

And then she abandoned the ark on the shores of the Red Sea.

And then he dressed his shield and his spear, and cried aloud unto Sir
Tristram and said: Knight, defend thee.

And then within a little while he had slain half their horses and
unhorsed them, and their horses ran in the fields and forest.

And then or I might recover my horse this Sir Breuse slew the damosel.

And then were they ware by them where stood a great horse tied to a
tree, and ever he neighed.

And then were they ware of a fair knight armed, under a tree, lacking
no piece of harness, save his helm lay under his head.

And then this strange knight left them there, and took his way through
the forest.

And then they rode together, and so he hurt my fellow.

And then Sir Gawaine asked him his name.

And then Sir Tristram asked them their names, and so either told other
their names.

And then they dressed their shields, and came running together with
great ire.

And then either took leave of other, and departed on their way.

And then they dressed their shields and spears, and came together with
all their might of their horses; and they met so fiercely that both
their horses and knights fell to the earth, and as fast as they might
avoided their horses, and put their shields afore them; and they
struck together with bright swords, as men that were of might, and
either wounded other wonderly sore, that the blood ran out upon the
grass.

And then they both forthwithal went to the stone, and set them down
upon it, and took off their helms to cool them, and either kissed
other an hundred times.

And then anon after they took off their helms and rode to Camelot.

And then he told the king how he had rescued him from the nine knights
and Breuse Saunce Pit<e'>; and how he found a knight lying by a well,
and that knight smote down Sir Palomides and me, but his shield was
covered with a cloth.

And then the king saw in the siege of Marhaus letters that said: This
is the siege of the noble knight, Sir Tristram.

And then Arthur made Sir Tristram Knight of the Table Round, with
great nobley and great feast as might be thought.

And then King Mark arose again, and followed after Sir Lamorak.

And then they came into a fair court well repaired, and they had
passing good cheer, till the lieutenant of this castle, that hight
Berluse, espied King Mark of Cornwall.

And then he hurtled to King Mark, and smote him sore upon the shield,
that he bare him clean out of his saddle to the earth.

And then they took their horses and departed and left Sir Berluse
there sore wounded.

And then either dressed their spears and their shields, and smote
together, so that through fine force Sir Dinadan was smitten to the
earth; and lightly he rose up and gat his horse, and required that
knight to do battle with swords.

And then they took their horses, and rode after to see how Sir Dagonet
sped, for they would not for no good that Sir Dagonet were shent, for
King Arthur loved him passing well, and made him knight with his own
hands.

And then that strong knight bare a spear to Dagonet, and smote him so
sore that he bare him over his horse's tail, and nigh he had broken
his neck.

And then they feutred their spears, and this knight came so eagerly
that he smote down Sir Uwaine.

And then also soon as she might she gave the varlet all that he asked.

And then Sir Palomides told Sir Dinadan the same day that they should
have met.

And then were they ware of a castle that was fair and rich, and also
passing strong as any was within this realm.

And then they came together a soft pace, and wonderly they lashed
together passing thick the mountenance of an hour or ever they
breathed.

And then he told the king all that battle, and how Sir Palomides was
more weaker, and more hurt, and more lost of his blood.

And then he wist well that Sir Tristram enjoyed her.

And then he made great sorrow for anger.

And then they concluded all at once, and said thus unto King Mark:
Sir, wit ye well ye must send for Sir Tristram, the good knight, or
else they will never be overcome.

And then Sir Tristram rode by the woods and by the ditches as secretly
as he might, till he came nigh the gates.

And then he might see sometime the battle was driven a bow-draught
from the castle, and sometime it was at the gates of the castle.

And then Sir Dinas gat King Mark again to horseback.

And then they went to council; and wit you well either party were
loath to fight more, so that either might escape with their worship.

And then he dressed up his shield unto Elias, and gave him many sad
strokes, twenty against one, and all to-brake his shield and his
hauberk, that the hot blood ran down to the earth.

And then the good Prince Boudwin, at the landing, he raised the
country privily and hastily.

And then Sir Sadok passed forth into his chamber, and took his horse
and his harness, and rode on his way a good pace.

And then they rushed together like two boars, and laid on their helms
and shields long time, by the space of three hours, that never man
could say which was the better knight.

And then he raced off his helm, and smote off his head lightly.

And then he, weening to be strong enough, would have mounted.

And then she said: Ye may keep the room of this castle this
twelvemonth and a day, then break ye not your oath.

And then she leapt out of her pavilion, and took Sir Alisander by the
bridle, and thus she said: Fair knight, I require thee of thy
knighthood show me thy visage.

And then he put off his helm; and she saw his visage, she said: O
sweet Jesu, thee I must love, and never other.

And then there came another knight that hight Sir Hewgon, and Sir
Alisander smote him down as he did that other.

And then was he so enamoured upon her that he wist not whether he were
on horseback or on foot.

And then he came to Arthur's court and told him his intent, how this
was his will, how he would let cry a jousts in the country of Surluse,
the which country was within the lands of King Arthur, and there he
asked leave to let cry a jousts.

And then either gat another spear.

And then Sir Sauseise encountered with Sir Meliagaunce, and either
smote other down.

And then they fought on foot, and there Sauseise had won Sir
Meliagaunce, had there not come rescues.

And then he raced off his helm and smote off his head.

And then they came so hard together that their spears all to-shivered,
but Sir Galahalt smote him so hard that he bare him backward over his
horse, but yet he lost not his stirrups.

And then he smote many sad strokes at the haut prince; but when
Dinadan saw he might not get him to the earth he said: My lord, I pray
you leave me, and take another.

And then Galahalt rode fast after him, and bade him: Abide, Dinadan,
for King Arthur's sake.

And then Palomides alighted and drew his sword, but Sir Archade might
not arise; and there Sir Palomides raced off his helm, and smote off
his head.

And then there began great battle, and many knights were cast under
horses' feet.

And then they blew unto lodging, and unarmed them, and went to the
feast.

And then either took a greater spear, and then the knight smote down
Sir Palomides, horse and man, to the earth.

And then the three kings fled aback.

And then they were departed, and had unto their lodging, and unarmed
them, and so they went to the great feast.

And then Sir Palomides returned again and took his damosel, and Sir
Safere returned his way.

And then they pulled out their swords, and dressed their shields, and
lashed together mightily as mighty knights, that well-nigh there was
no piece of harness would hold them, for this Corsabrin was a passing
felonious knight.

And then either party encountered with other, and there were many
spears broken, and many knights cast under feet.

And then he said thus: Sir Galahalt, well may I liken you to a wolf,
for he will never eat fish, but flesh; then the haut prince laughed at
his words.

And then King Mark made Sir Tristram to eat.

And then after he gave him a drink, the which as soon as he had drunk
he fell asleep.

And then Sir Tristram was delivered out of prison; and anon in all the
haste Queen Isoud and Sir Tristram went and took their counsel with
that they would have with them when they departed.

And then Sir Tristram alighted and put off his helm to drink of that
bubbly water.

And then Sir Ector dressed his spear, and smote either other passing
sore, but Sir Ector fell to the earth.

And then anon he made his horse to run over Sir Bleoberis, and rashed
him to the earth like if he would have slain him.

And then they gat off their horses as well as they might, and dressed
their shields and swords to do their battle to the utterance.

And then he turned to Gaheris, and Sir Tristram smote his sword and
his helm together with such a might that Gaheris fell out of his
saddle: and so Sir Tristram rode unto Joyous Gard, and there he
alighted and unarmed him.

And then Sir Tristram hurtled unto that knight, and smote him quite
from his horse.

And then were they ware of four hundred tents and pavilions, and
marvellous great ordinance.

And then were they ware of a knight that came riding against them
unarmed, and nothing about him but a sword.

And then this knight waxed pale and wroth at Sir Tristram.

And then he struck fiercely at Sir Tristram many great strokes.

And then Sir Tristram gave Sir Berrant such a buffet upon the helm
that he fell down over his horse sore stonied.

And then Sir Tristram ran to him, and gave him a fall; and so they
left them on foot, and Sir Tristram rode unto Joyous Gard, and there
Sir Gareth would not of his courtesy have gone into this castle, but
Sir Tristram would not suffer him to depart.

And then it waxed clear day, and Sir Palomides entered into the
castle.

And then he commanded me to put forth that same vessel down Humber,
and I should give these mariners in commandment never to stint until
that they came unto Logris, where all the noble knights shall assemble
at this time.

And then he smote Sir Helius with such a might that he fell to the
earth grovelling; and then he raced off his helm from his head, and
there he smote him such a buffet that he departed his head from the
body.

And then were the people of the city the joyfullest people that might
be.

And then Sir Palomides prayed them all to take keep unto all the
lordship of King Hermance: For, fair sirs, wit ye well I may not as at
this time abide with you, for I must in all haste be with my lord King
Arthur at the Castle of Lonazep, the which I have promised.

And then he devised how it should be; and Sir Tristram devised to send
his two pavilions to set them fast by the well of Lonazep, and therein
shall be the queen La Beale Isoud.

And then came there another knight, and in the same wise he served
him; and so he served the third and the fourth, that he smote them
over their horses' croups, and always Sir Palomides' spear was whole.

And then these three knights rode straight unto the party of the King
of Scots.

And then Sir Tristram drew his sword and rode into the thickest of the
press against them of Orkney; and there he smote down knights, and
rashed off helms, and pulled away their shields, and hurtled down many
knights: he fared so that Sir Arthur and all knights had great marvel
when they saw one knight do so great deeds of arms.

And then Sir Bleoberis encountered with Sir Palomides, and he smote
him so hard upon the shield that Sir Palomides and his white horse
rustled to the earth.

And then the noise turned awhile how the green knights were slain
down.

And then Sir Tristram gave the King of Northgalis King Arthur's horse:
then was there great press about King Arthur for to horse him again;
but Sir Palomides would not suffer King Arthur to be horsed again, but
ever Sir Palomides smote on the right hand and on the left hand
mightily as a noble knight.

And then King Arthur sent out many knights of the Table Round; and Sir
Palomides was ever in the foremost front, and Sir Tristram did so
strongly well that the king and all other had marvel.

And then the king let blow to lodging; and because Sir Palomides began
first, and never he went nor rode out of the field to repose, but ever
he was doing marvellously well either on foot or on horseback, and
longest during, King Arthur and all the kings gave Sir Palomides the
honour and the gree as for that day.

And then every knight drew to his inn.

And then King Arthur and every knight spake of those knights; but
above all men they gave Sir Palomides the prize, and all knights that
knew Sir Palomides had wonder of his deeds.

And then Sir Launcelot and Sir Palomides rushed together with two
spears strongly, but Sir Launcelot smote Sir Palomides so hard that he
went quite out of his saddle, and had a great fall.

And then Sir Tristram put his spear from him, and put Sir Palomides
again on horseback, and Sir Launcelot put King Arthur on horseback and
so departed.

And then came in Sir Tristram de Liones; and then Sir Tristram smote
down Sir Uwaine and Sir Lucanere; and Sir Palomides smote down other
two knights and Sir Gareth smote down other two knights.

And then came into the place the duke's son of Orkney, and then they
began to do many deeds of arms.

And then the noise went plain from Sir Palomides, and all the people
cried upon Sir Tristram.

And then Sir Launcelot with the three knights of his kin did so great
deeds of arms that all the noise began upon Sir Launcelot.

And then there was neither Sir Tristram nor none of King Arthur's
party that knew Sir Palomides.

And then Sir Palomides rode against Sir Tristram, and either met other
with great spears, that they brast to their hands.

And then they dashed together with swords eagerly.

And then she began to weep so heartily for the despite of Sir
Palomides that there she swooned.

And then came Sir Dinadan with a spear, and he smote Sir Launcelot
such a buffet that horse and all fell to the earth.

And then forthwithal I saw him ride to the hurt knight, and changed
harness with him, and then straight I saw him how he rode into the
field.

And then they heard three blasts blow, and every king and knight
dressed him unto the field.

And then the noise began greatly upon Sir Palomides.

And then was Sir Palomides clean forgotten.

And then Sir Gareth and Dinadan did wonderly great deeds of arms, as
two noble knights, so that King Arthur spake of them great honour and
worship; and the kings and knights of Sir Tristram's side did
passingly well, and held them truly together.

And then the King of Ireland and the King of Scots with their knights
did their pain to take King Arthur and Sir Launcelot prisoner.

And then Sir Ector came again and gave Sir Palomides such a dash with
a sword that he stooped down upon his saddle bow.

And then Sir Launcelot brought to King Arthur one of the best of the
four horses.

And then Sir Launcelot smote down the King of Ireland quite from his
horse; and so Sir Launcelot smote down the King of Scots, and the King
of Wales; and then Sir Arthur ran unto Sir Palomides and smote him
quite from his horse; and then Sir Tristram bare down all that he met.

And then those kings gat Sir Palomides' horse again, and made him to
arm him and mount upon his horse, and so he rode with them, making
great dole.

And then in a forest by a well Sir Palomides saw where lay a fair
wounded knight and his horse bounden by him; and that knight made the
greatest dole that ever he heard man make, for ever he wept, and
therewith he sighed as though he would die.

And then we went to battle first upon horse and after on foot, but at
the last Sir Helior wounded me so that he left me for dead, and so he
took my lady with him; and thus my sorrow is more than yours, for I
have rejoiced and ye rejoiced never.

And then he cried mercy, and prayed him to save his life, and bade him
take his lady.

And then they rode unto his castle, where they had great cheer and
joy, as great as ever Sir Palomides and Sir Safere had in their life-
days.

And then they rode with Sir Palomides unto a castle by the seaside,
that hight Pelownes, and there Sir Palomides should have justice.

And then was he ware of Sir Palomides bounden, and led shamefully to
his death.

And then Sir Launcelot mounted upon his horse, and gat his spear in
his hand, and rode after the twelve knights that led Sir Palomides.

And then Sir Launcelot took the best horse that he found, and loosed
Sir Palomides and set him upon that horse; and so they returned again
unto Joyous Gard, and then was Sir Palomides ware of Sir Tristram how
he came riding.

And then Sir Palomides said: My lord, Sir Tristram, much am I
beholding unto you of your great goodness, that would proffer your
noble body to rescue me undeserved, for I have greatly offended you.

And then he began to make a rhyme of La Beale Isoud and him.

And then Sir Tristram rode softly thither, for he deemed there was
some knight errant that was at the well.

And then departed Sir Palomides whereas fortune led him, and within a
month Sir Tristram was whole of his hurt.

And then he took his horse, and rode from country to country, and all
strange adventures he achieved wheresomever he rode; and always he
enquired for Sir Palomides, but of all that quarter of summer Sir
Tristram could never meet with Sir Palomides.

And then they of Liones sent letters unto Sir Tristram of
recommendation, and many great gifts to maintain Sir Tristram's
estate; and ever, between, Sir Tristram resorted unto Joyous Gard
whereas La Beale Isoud was, that loved him as her life.

And then after this feast Sir Launcelot rode on his adventure, till on
a time by adventure he passed over the pont of Corbin; and there he
saw the fairest tower that ever he saw, and there-under was a fair
town full of people; and all the people, men and women, cried at once:
Welcome, Sir Launcelot du Lake, the flower of all knighthood, for by
thee all we shall be holpen out of danger.

And then either of them made much of other, and so they went into the
castle to take their repast.

And then this Brisen by the commandment of King Pelles let send Elaine
to this castle with twenty-five knights unto the Castle of Case.

And then Dame Brisen brought Sir Launcelot a cup full of wine; and
anon as he had drunken that wine he was so assotted and mad that he
might make no delay, but withouten any let he went to bed; and he
weened that maiden Elaine had been Queen Guenever.

And then Sir Bromel, as an hardy knight, pulled out his sword, and
dressed his shield to do battle with Sir Bors.

And then Sir Bors alighted and avoided his horse, and there they
dashed together many sad strokes; and long thus they fought, till at
the last Sir Bromel was laid to the earth, and there Sir Bors began to
unlace his helm to slay him.

And then they kneeled down and made their devotions, and there was
such a savour as all the spicery in the world had been there.

And then he laid him down again for pain; and anon therewithal there
came a knight armed with his shield on his shoulder and his sword in
his hand, and he bade Sir Bors: Arise, sir knight, and fight with me.

And then Sir Bors started up and dressed his shield; and then they
lashed together mightily a great while; and at the last Sir Bors bare
him backward until that he came unto a chamber door, and there that
knight yede into that chamber and rested him a great while.

And then Sir Bors laid him down to rest, and then he heard and felt
much noise in that chamber; and then Sir Bors espied that there came
in, he wist not whether at the doors nor windows, shot of arrows and
of quarrels so thick that he marvelled, and many fell upon him and
hurt him in the bare places.

And then Sir Bors was ware where came in an hideous lion; so Sir Bors
dressed him unto the lion, and anon the lion bereft him his shield,
and with his sword Sir Bors smote off the lion's head.

And then Sir Bors seemed that there came the whitest dove with a
little golden censer in her mouth.

And then Sir Bors saw four gentlewomen come by him, purely beseen: and
he saw where that they entered into a chamber where was great light as
it were a summer light; and the women kneeled down afore an altar of
silver with four pillars, and as it had been a bishop kneeled down
afore that table of silver.

And then he yede backward to his bed till on the morn.

And then Sir Launcelot told the queen all, and how he was made to lie
by her by enchantment in likeness of the queen.

And then Elaine said unto her woman, Dame Brisen: the unkindness of
Sir Launcelot slayeth me near.

And then she coughed so loud that Sir Launcelot awaked, and he knew
her hemming.

And then he knew well that he lay not by the queen; and therewith he
leapt out of his bed as he had been a wood man, in his shirt, and the
queen met him in the floor; and thus she said: False traitor knight
that thou art, look thou never abide in my court, and avoid my
chamber, and not so hardy, thou false traitor knight that thou art,
that ever thou come in my sight.

And then Sir Bors took her up, and dawed her; and when she was awaked
she kneeled afore the three knights, and held up both her hands, and
besought them to seek him.

And then the queen sent them treasure enough for their expenses, and
so they took their horses and their armour, and departed.

And then they rode from country to country, in forests, and in
wilderness, and in wastes; and ever they laid watch both at forests
and at all manner of men as they rode, to hearken and spere after him,
as he that was a naked man, in his shirt, with a sword in his hand.

And then she said: Ah, my dear sons, when your father was slain he
left me four sons, of the which now be twain slain.

And then she kneeled down upon her knees to-fore Aglovale and Sir
Percivale, and besought them to abide at home with her.

And then that lord commanded his men to have him away and slay him;
and so they did, and so pulled him out of the castle, and there they
slew him without mercy.

And then they departed and took their horses; and then they let carry
the dead squire unto a priory, and there they interred him.

And then Sir Percivale took the knight's horse and made Sir Persides
to mount up him; and so they rode unto the castle, and bade the lady
deliver Sir Persides' servants, or else he would slay all that ever he
found; and so for fear she delivered them all.

And then he kneeled down and made his prayer devoutly unto Almighty
Jesu, for he was one of the best knights of the world that at that
time was, in whom the very faith stood most in.

And then he said with fair speech: Good man, lay down that sword, for
as meseemeth thou hadst more need of sleep and of warm clothes than to
wield that sword.

And then the dwarf armed him lightly; and so the knight thought by
force and might to take the sword from Sir Launcelot, and so he came
stepping out; and when Sir Launcelot saw him come so all armed with
his sword in his hand, then Sir Launcelot flew to him with such a
might, and hit him upon the helm such a buffet, that the stroke
troubled his brains, and therewith the sword brake in three.

And then they drew out swords and made great battle, and fought long
together.

And then Sir Launcelot brake the chains from his legs and off his
arms, and in the breaking he hurt his hands sore; and so Sir Launcelot
ran out at a postern, and there he met with the two knights that
chased Sir Bliant; and there he pulled down Sir Bertelot with his bare
hands from his horse, and therewithal he wrothe his sword out of his
hand; and so he leapt unto Sir Breuse, and gave him such a buffet upon
the head that he tumbled backward over his horse's croup.

And then Sir Breuse and Sir Bertelot gat their horses and fled away.

And then Sir Launcelot was wroth, and up he gat upon his feet, and
drew his sword, and he smote off the boar's head at one stroke.

And then upon a day Sir Launcelot ran his way into the forest; and by
adventure he came to the city of Corbin, where Dame Elaine was, that
bare Galahad, Sir Launcelot's son.

And then they ordained him clothes to his body, and straw underneath
him, and a little house.

And then every day they would throw him meat, and set him drink, but
there was but few would bring him meat to his hands.

And then Sir Castor sent for the fool--that was Sir Launcelot.

And then I told my father, and so were ye brought afore this holy
vessel, and by the virtue of it thus were ye healed.

And then upon a day he said unto Dame Elaine these words: Lady Elaine,
for your sake I have had much travail, care, and anguish, it needeth
not to rehearse it, ye know how.

And then, after this, King Pelles with ten knights, and Dame Elaine,
and twenty ladies, rode unto the Castle of Bliant that stood in an
island beclosed in iron, with a fair water deep and large.

And then would he fall upon a weeping as his heart should to-brast.

And then Sir Percivale alighted, and said to Sir Ector de Maris: Ye
shall abide me here until that I wit what manner a knight he is; for
it were shame unto us, inasmuch as he is but one knight, an we should
both do battle with him.

And then thus he said: Sir knight, whatsomever thou be, I require thee
upon the high order of knighthood, tell me thy true name.

And then there were great feasts made and great joy; and many great
lords and ladies, when they heard that Sir Launcelot was come to the
court again, they made great joy.

And then he turned his horse and struck at Palomides six great strokes
upon his helm; and then Sir Palomides stood still, and beheld Sir
Tristram, and marvelled of his woodness, and of his folly.

And then Sir Palomides said to himself: An Sir Tristram were armed, it
were hard to cease him of this battle, and if I turn again and slay
him I am ashamed wheresomever that I go.

And then Sir Tristram mounted upon his own horse, and in his hand he
gat Sir Galleron's spear; and therewithal Sir Palomides was ready.

And then will we all ride together unto the court of Arthur, that we
be there at the high feast.

And then soon after they departed, riding toward Camelot, where King
Arthur and Queen Guenever was, and for the most part all the knights
of the Round Table.

And then they led him unto the Abbess's chamber and unarmed him; and
right so he was ware upon a bed lying two of his cousins, Sir Bors and
Sir Lionel, and then he waked them; and when they saw him they made
great joy.

And then he set him down surely in that siege.

And then he said to the old man: Sir, ye may now go your way, for well
have ye done that ye were commanded to do; and recommend me unto my
grandsire, King Pelles, and unto my lord Petchere, and say them on my
behalf, I shall come and see them as soon as ever I may.

And then he answered himself: I am here, fair lady.

And then Sir Gawaine and other knights prayed him to take a spear.

And then the king and all estates went home unto Camelot, and so went
to evensong to the great minster, and so after upon that to supper,
and every knight sat in his own place as they were toforehand.

And then the king yielded thankings to God, of His good grace that he
had sent them.

And then he said: Gawaine, Gawaine, ye have set me in great sorrow,
for I have great doubt that my true fellowship shall never meet here
more again.

And then they went to rest them.

And then the king again said: Ah Gawaine, Gawaine, ye have betrayed
me; for never shall my court be amended by you, but ye will never be
sorry for me as I am for you.

And then the king and the queen went unto the minster.

And then they put on their helms and departed, and recommended them
all wholly unto the queen; and there was weeping and great sorrow.

And then he said unto Galahad: An it please you abide here still, till
ye wit how that I speed.

And then he came to Bagdemagus' squire and said: Bear this shield unto
the good knight Sir Galahad, that thou left in the abbey, and greet
him well by me.

And then he asked his arms, and mounted upon his horse, and hung the
white shield about his neck, and commended them unto God.

And then there he shewed him the right belief of the Holy Trinity, to
the which he agreed unto with all his heart; and there this shield was
made for King Evelake, in the name of Him that died upon the Cross.

And then through his good belief he had the better of King Tolleme.

And then King Evelake was baptised, and for the most part all the
people of that city.

And then the White Knight vanished away.

And then upon a Monday in the morning, as they were departed from an
abbey, they came to a cross which departed two ways, and in that cross
were letters written that said thus: Now, ye knights errant, the which
goeth to seek knights adventurous, see here two ways; that one way
defendeth thee that thou ne go that way, for he shall not go out of
the way again but if he be a good man and a worthy knight; and if thou
go on the left hand, thou shalt not lightly there win prowess, for
thou shalt in this way be soon assayed.

And then he came into a fair meadow, and there was a fair lodge of
boughs.

And then he espied in that lodge a chair, wherein was a crown of gold,
subtly wrought.

And then they let their horses run as fast as they might, so that the
other knight smote Sir Melias through hauberk and through the left
side, that he fell to the earth nigh dead.

And then he took the crown and went his way; and Sir Melias lay still
and had no power to stir.

And then he said: Ah Melias, who hath wounded you?

And then he fled, and Sir Galahad pursued fast after him.

And then he turned again unto Sir Melias, and there he alighted and
dressed him softly on his horse to-fore him, for the truncheon of his
spear was in his body; and Sir Galahad stert up behind him, and held
him in his arms, and so brought him to the abbey, and there unarmed
him and brought him to his chamber.

And then he asked his Saviour.

And then he asked Sir Melias how it stood with him.

And then they took the maiden and the treasure of the castle.

And then by great force they held all the knights of this castle
against their will under their obeissance, and in great service and
truage, robbing and pilling the poor common people of all that they
had.

And then they made joy either of other.

And then they took the way under the castle, and there they lost the
way that Sir Galahad rode, and there everych of them departed from
other; and Sir Gawaine rode till he came to an hermitage, and there he
found the good man saying his evensong of Our Lady; and there Sir
Gawaine asked harbour for charity, and the good man granted it him
gladly.

And then he drew his sword, and dressed him unto Sir Percivale, and
smote him so on the helm, that it rove to the coif of steel; and had
not the sword swerved Sir Percivale had been slain, and with the
stroke he fell out of his saddle.

And then they turned again with heavy cheer.

And then he called himself a very wretch, and most unhappy of all
knights; and there he said: My sin and my wickedness have brought me
unto great dishonour.

And then Launcelot kneeled down and cried on Our Lord mercy for his
wicked works.

And then he told there that good man all his life.

And then Sir Launcelot promised him he nold, by the faith of his body.

And then He went without the town, and found in midst of the way a fig
tree, the which was right fair and well garnished of leaves, but fruit
had it none.

And then Sir Launcelot repented him greatly.

And then she commanded the gates to be opened, and there he had all
the cheer that she might make him, and all that was in her power was
at his commandment.

And then he made the Siege Perilous, in the which Galahad sat in at
his meat on Whitsunday last past.

And then Sir Percivale departed and rode till the hour of noon.

And then he dressed him toward the twenty men of arms as fast as his
horse might drive, with his spear in the rest, and smote the foremost
horse and man to the earth.

And then he wist well it was Sir Galahad.

And then he cried aloud: Ah fair knight, abide and suffer me to do
thankings unto thee, for much have ye done for me.

And then he met with a yeoman riding upon an hackney, the which led in
his hand a great steed blacker than any bear.

And then he cried: Knight, turn again; and he turned and set his spear
against Sir Percivale, and he smote the hackney in the midst of the
breast that he fell down dead to the earth, and there he had a great
fall, and the other rode his way.

And then Sir Percivale was wood wroth, and cried: Abide, wicked
knight; coward and false-hearted knight, turn again and fight with me
on foot.

And then he made a sign of the cross in his forehead.

And then he went into a valley, and there he saw a young serpent bring
a young lion by the neck, and so he came by Sir Percivale.

And then Sir Percivale thought to help the lion, for he was the more
natural beast of the two; and therewith he drew his sword, and set his
shield afore him, and there he gave the serpent such a buffet that he
had a deadly wound.

And then he stroked him on the neck and on the shoulders.

And then he thanked God of the fellowship of that beast.

And then he asked her what was her lord.

And then he answered: That will I not grant you.

And then he would not suffer me to be any longer in his company, and
so drove me from mine heritage, and so disherited me, and he had never
pity of me nor of none of my council, nor of my court.

And then he awoke and asked her if she had any meat, and she said:
Yea, also ye shall have enough.

And then Sir Percivale proffered her love, and prayed her that she
would be his.

And then two squires were commanded to make a bed in midst of the
pavilion.

And then Sir Percivale laid him down by her naked; and by adventure
and grace he saw his sword lie on the ground naked, in whose pommel
was a red cross and the sign of the crucifix therein, and bethought
him on his knighthood and his promise made to-forehand unto the good
man; then he made a sign of the cross in his forehead, and therewith
the pavilion turned up-so- down, and then it changed unto a smoke, and
a black cloud, and then he was adread and cried aloud: CHAPTER X How
Sir Percivale for penance rove himself through the thigh; and how she
was known for the devil.

And then he looked into a ship, and saw her enter therein, which said:
Sir Percivale, ye have betrayed me.

And then he stopped his bleeding wound with a piece of his shirt.

And then he departed about the hour of noon.

And then he saw a little house.

And then the good man and Sir Launcelot went into the chapel; and the
good man took a stole about his neck, and a book, and then he conjured
on that book; and with that they saw in an hideous figure and
horrible, that there was no man so hard-hearted nor so hard but he
should have been afeard.

And then he asked leave, and went out of his hermitage for to maintain
his nephew against the mighty earl; and so it happed that this man
that lieth here dead did so much by his wisdom and hardiness that the
earl was taken, and three of his lords, by force of this dead man.

And then they set upon him and drew out swords to have slain him; but
there would no sword bite on him more than upon a gad of steel, for
the high Lord which he served He him preserved.

And then they despoiled him, and put upon him this shirt, and cast him
in a fire, and there he lay all that night till it was day in that
fire, and was not dead, and so in the morn I came and found him dead;
but I found neither thread nor skin tamed, and so took him out of the
fire with great fear, and laid him here as ye may see.

And then he departed with a great tempest.

And then Sir Launcelot dwelled with that good man that night.

And then Sir Launcelot began to weep.

And then they put afore them their spears, and Sir Launcelot came so
fiercely upon him that he smote him and his horse down to the earth,
that he had nigh broken his neck.

And then Sir Launcelot and he went to supper, and so laid him to rest,
and the hair pricked so Sir Launcelot's skin which grieved him full
sore, but he took it meekly, and suffered the pain.

And then he drew out his sword, and struck many knights to the earth,
so that all those that saw him marvelled that ever one knight might do
so great deeds of arms.

And then all the fellowship of the castle were overcome for the
default of him.

And then Sir Launcelot made great sorrow, For never or now was I never
at tournament nor jousts but I had the best, and now I am shamed; and
then he said: Now I am sure that I am more sinfuller than ever I was.

And then he laid him down to sleep.

And then him thought there came an old man afore him, the which said:
Ah, Launcelot of evil faith and poor belief, wherefore is thy will
turned so lightly toward thy deadly sin?

And then he came, and she asked him what he was, and of what place,
and where about he went to seek.

And then he took his helm and his shield, and thanked God of his
adventure.

And then in a valley they met with a knight all armed, which proffered
them to joust as far as he saw them.

And then either embraced other to joust and came together as fast as
their horses might run, and brast their shields and the mails, and the
one more than the other; and Gawaine was wounded in the left side, but
the other knight was smitten through the breast, and the spear came
out on the other side, and so they fell both out of their saddles, and
in the falling they brake both their spears.

And then Uwaine himself and Sir Gawaine drew out the truncheon of the
spear, and anon departed the soul from the body.

And then he thought to counsel them if he might.

And then he took him a scarlet coat, so that should be instead of his
shirt till he had fulfilled the quest of the Sangreal; and the good
man found in him so marvellous a life and so stable, that he marvelled
and felt that he was never corrupt in fleshly lusts, but in one time
that he begat Elian le Blank.

And then he departed.

And then he ran upon him more and more, and the other went back for
dread of death.

And then he set down the maiden, and was armed at all pieces save he
lacked his spear.

And then he said to the man: Canst thou tell me unto some chapel where
that I may bury this body?

And then they alighted both, and put him into a tomb of marble.

And then he led Sir Bors into an high tower, and there he found
knights and ladies: those ladies said he was welcome, and so they
unarmed him.

And then Sir Bors saluted him, and he him again.

And then he rode all that day, and harboured with an old lady.

And then he turned to an hermitage that was in the entry of the
forest.

And then he alighted off his horse, and said: Fair sweet brother, when
came ye hither?

And then he beheld Lionel would have slain his brother, and knew Sir
Bors which he loved right well.

And then they within came out and chased them all about.

And then there came a voice and said: Take thou that for thy forfeit
that thou didst in drawing of this sword, therefore thou receivest a
wound, for thou were never worthy to handle it, as the writing maketh
mention.

And then a little voice said: Solomon, the last knight of thy lineage
shall rest in this bed.

And then she opened a box, and took out girdles which were seemly
wrought with golden threads, and upon that were set full precious
stones, and a rich buckle of gold.

And then he gripped about it with his fingers a great deal; and then
she girt him about the middle with the sword.

And then they brought the Earl Hernox out of prison into the midst of
the hall, that knew Galahad anon, and yet he saw him never afore but
by revelation of Our Lord.

And then they joyed much, and dwelled there all that day.

And then they said: This gentlewoman must yield us the custom of this
castle.

And then said a voice: Lords and fellows, to-morrow at the hour of
prime ye three shall depart everych from other, till the adventure
bring you to the Maimed King.

And then he lift up his hand and blessed him, and so took his arms and
made him ready; and so by adventure he came by a strand, and found a
ship the which was without sail or oar.

And then he listened and heard an horse come, and one riding upon him.

And then Launcelot dressed unto him, and said: Ye be welcome.

And then Launcelot marvelled not a little, for him thought the priest
was so greatly charged of the figure that him seemed that he should
fall to the earth.

And then they said all: O my lord Sir Launcelot, be that ye?

And then it happed suddenly a knight came to the chief door and
knocked, and cried: Undo the door.

And then he departed and came to the abbey where Galahad did the
adventure of the tombs, and won the white shield with the red cross;
and there had he great cheer all that night.

And then he dressed him against him, and said: Galahad, the servant of
Jesu Christ, whose coming I have abiden so long, now embrace me and
let me rest on thy breast, so that I may rest between thine arms, for
thou art a clean virgin above all knights, as the flower of the lily
in whom virginity is signified, and thou art the rose the which is the
flower of all good virtues, and in colour of fire.

And then Galahad put him in the earth as a king ought to be, and so
departed and so came into a perilous forest where he found the well
the which boileth with great waves, as the tale telleth to-fore.

And then the flaming failed, and the fire staunched, the which many a
day had been great.

And then he took the pieces and set them together, and they seemed
that they had never been broken, and as well as it had been first
forged.

And then he took an ubblie which was made in likeness of bread.

And then he went to Galahad and kissed him, and bade him go and kiss
his fellows: and so he did anon.

And then he began to tremble right hard when the deadly flesh began to
behold the spiritual things.

And then it came right to the Vessel, and took it and the spear, and
so bare it up to heaven.

And then he was buried; and as soon as he was buried Sir Percivale
yielded him to an hermitage out of the city, and took a religious
clothing.

And then was there great joy made of him in the court, for they weened
all he had been dead, forasmuch as he had been so long out of the
country.

And then if that ye fall in any distress through wilful folly, then is
there none other remedy or help but by me and my blood.

And then the noble knight, Sir Launcelot, departed with right heavy
cheer suddenly, that none earthly creature wist of him, nor where he
was become, but Sir Bors.

And then was he ware where came from a wood there fast by a knight all
armed, upon a white horse, with a strange shield of strange arms; and
he came riding all that he might run, and so he came to Sir Bors, and
said thus: Fair knight, I pray you be not displeased, for here must a
better knight than ye are have this battle, therefore I pray you
withdraw you.

And then they rode to the lists' end, and there they couched their
spears, and ran together with all their might, and Sir Mador's spear
brake all to pieces, but the other's spear held, and bare Sir Mador's
horse and all backward to the earth a great fall.

And then he gave him such a buffet upon the helm that he fell to the
earth flatling, and therewith he strode to him to have pulled off his
helm off his head.

And then Sir Mador prayed that knight to save his life, and so he
yielded him as overcome, and released the queen of his quarrel.

And then he put off his helm to drink, and then every knight knew him
that it was Sir Launcelot du Lake.

And then Sir Mador was had to leech-craft, and Sir Launcelot was
healed of his wound.

And then there was made great joy and mirths in that court.

And then he rode so much until he came to Astolat, that is Guildford;
and there it happed him in the eventide he came to an old baron's
place that hight Sir Bernard of Astolat.

And then Sir Launcelot betook the fair maiden his shield in keeping,
and prayed her to keep that until that he came again; and so that
night he had merry rest and great cheer, for ever the damosel Elaine
was about Sir Launcelot all the while she might be suffered.

And then they rode so long till that they came to Camelot, that time
called Winchester; and there was great press of kings, dukes earls,
and barons, and many noble knights.

And then on the other party was the King of Northgalis, and the King
with the Hundred Knights, and the King of Northumberland, and Sir
Galahad, the haut prince.

And then came in Sir Brandiles, Sir Sagramore le Desirous, Sir Dodinas
le Savage, Sir Kay le Seneschal, Sir Griflet le Fise de Dieu, Sir
Mordred, Sir Meliot de Logris, Sir Ozanna le Cure Hardy, Sir Safere,
Sir Epinogris, Sir Galleron of Galway.

And then Sir Launcelot gat another spear, and there he smote down Sir
Agravaine, Sir Gaheris, and Sir Mordred, and Sir Meliot de Logris; and
Sir Lavaine smote Ozanna le Cure Hardy.

And then Sir Launcelot drew his sword, and there he smote on the right
hand and on the left hand, and by great force he unhorsed Sir Safere,
Sir Epinogris, and Sir Galleron; and then the knights of the Table
Round withdrew them aback, after they had gotten their horses as well
as they might.

And then Launcelot gat a spear in his hand, and there he smote Sir
Bors, horse and man, to the earth.

And then Sir Launcelot drew his sword, for he felt himself so sore
y-hurt that he weened there to have had his death.

And then he smote Sir Bleoberis such a buffet on the helm that he fell
down to the earth in a swoon.

And then he gave Sir Bors such a buffet that he made him bow his head
passing low; and therewithal he raced off his helm, and might have
slain him; and so pulled him down, and in the same wise he served Sir
Ector and Sir Lionel.

And then the king blew unto lodging, and the prize was given by
heralds unto the knight with the white shield that bare the red
sleeve.

And then with great pain Sir Lavaine halp him upon his horse.

And then they rode a great wallop together, and ever Sir Launcelot
bled that it ran down to the earth; and so by fortune they came to
that hermitage the which was under a wood, and a great cliff on the
other side, and a fair water running under it.

And then Sir Lavaine beat on the gate with the butt of his spear, and
cried fast: Let in for Jesu's sake.

And then anon the hermit staunched his blood, and made him to drink
good wine, so that Sir Launcelot was well refreshed and knew himself;
for in those days it was not the guise of hermits as is nowadays, for
there were none hermits in those days but that they had been men of
worship and of prowess; and those hermits held great household, and
refreshed people that were in distress.

And then she sent for Sir Bors de Ganis in all the haste that might
be.

And then Sir Launcelot prayed Sir Lavaine to take her up: And bring
her to me.

And then Sir Launcelot compassed in his mind that Sir Gawaine would
tell Queen Guenever how he bare the red sleeve, and for whom; that he
wist well would turn into great anger.

And then when he might speak he said thus: O my lord, Sir Launcelot,
God you bless, and send you hasty recover; and full heavy am I of my
misfortune and of mine unhappiness, for now I may call myself unhappy.

And then had I had no hurt, for it is an old said saw, there is hard
battle thereas kin and friends do battle either against other, there
may be no mercy but mortal war.

And then Sir Launcelot cried unto Sir Bors: Ah, Sir Bors and Sir
Lavaine, help, for I am come to mine end.

And then Sir Bors and Sir Lavaine came to him with sorrow-making out
of measure.

And then she rebuked her brother and Sir Bors, and called them false
traitors, why they would take him out of his bed; there she cried, and
said she would appeal them of his death.

And then Sir Launcelot waked of his swoon, and then the hermit
staunched his bleeding.

And then every knight of the Round Table that were there at that time
present made them ready to be at that jousts at All Hallowmass, and
thither drew many knights of divers countries.

And then she called her father, Sir Bernard, and her brother, Sir
Tirre, and heartily she prayed her father that her brother might write
a letter like as she did indite it: and so her father granted her.

And then the poor man went again with the barget.

And then were they wroth out of measure.

And then King Arthur was wood wroth, and ran to the King with the
Hundred Knights, and there King Arthur smote him down; and after with
that same spear King Arthur smote down three other knights.

And then when his spear was broken King Arthur did passingly well; and
so therewithal came in Sir Gawaine and Sir Gaheris, Sir Agravaine and
Sir Mordred, and there everych of them smote down a knight, and Sir
Gawaine smote down four knights; and then there began a strong medley,
for then there came in the knights of Launcelot's blood, and Sir
Gareth and Sir Palomides with them, and many knights of the Table
Round, and they began to hold the four kings and the mighty duke so
hard that they were discomfit; but this Duke Galahad, the haut prince,
was a noble knight, and by his mighty prowess of arms he held the
knights of the Table Round strait enough.

And then anon Sir Bors and the knights of his blood espied Sir
Launcelot, and said to them all: I warn you beware of him with the
sleeve of gold upon his head, for he is himself Sir Launcelot du Lake;
and for great goodness Sir Bors warned Sir Gareth.

And then were they horsed again, and then met Sir Launcelot with Sir
Palomides, and there Sir Palomides had a fall; and so Sir Launcelot or
ever he stint, as fast as he might get spears, he smote down thirty
knights, and the most part of them were knights of the Table Round;
and ever the knights of his blood withdrew them, and made them ado in
other places where Sir Launcelot came not.

And then King Arthur was wroth when he saw Sir Launcelot do such
deeds; and then the king called unto him Sir Gawaine, Sir Mordred, Sir
Kay, Sir Griflet, Sir Lucan the Butler, Sir Bedivere, Sir Palomides,
Sir Safere, his brother; and so the king with these nine knights made
them ready to set upon Sir Launcelot, and upon Sir Lavaine.

And then Sir Lavaine was horsed again, and he smote down Sir Lucan the
Butler and Sir Bedevere and then there began great throng of good
knights.

And then when it happed any of them to be of great worship by his
noble deeds, then at the next Feast of Pentecost, if there were any
slain or dead, as there was none year that there failed but some were
dead, then was there chosen in his stead that was dead the most men of
worship, that were called the Queen's Knights.

And then Sir Meliagrance charged the queen and all her knights that
none of all her fellowship should depart from her; for full sore he
dread Sir Launcelot du Lake, lest he should have any knowledging.

And then Sir Meliagrance said to the queen: Madam, ye are about to
betray me, but I shall ordain for Sir Launcelot that he shall not come
lightly at you.

And then he rode with her, and they all, to his castle, in all the
haste that they might.

And then within a while he came to the same place thereas the ten
noble knights fought with Sir Meliagrance.

And then she was ware where came his horse ever after that chariot,
and ever he trod his guts and his paunch under his feet.

And then Sir Launcelot asked where were the ten knights that were
wounded sore; so she showed them unto Sir Launcelot, and there they
made great joy of the coming of him, and Sir Launcelot made great dole
of their hurts, and bewailed them greatly.

And then they made either to other their complaints of many divers
things, and then Sir Launcelot wished that he might have come into
her.

And then they went together from chamber to chamber, for Sir Launcelot
dread no perils; for ever a man of worship and of prowess dreadeth
least always perils, for they ween every man be as they be; but ever
he that fareth with treason putteth oft a man in great danger.

And then there was no more else to say, but Sir Launcelot and Sir
Meliagrance dressed them unto battle, and took their spears; and so
they came together as thunder, and there Sir Launcelot bare him down
quite over his horse's croup.

And then Sir Launcelot alighted and dressed his shield on his
shoulder, with his sword in his hand, and Sir Meliagrance in the same
wise dressed him unto him, and there they smote many great strokes
together; and at the last Sir Launcelot smote him such a buffet upon
the helmet that he fell on the one side to the earth.

And then he cried upon him aloud: Most noble knight, Sir Launcelot du
Lake, save my life, for I yield me unto you, and I require you, as ye
be a knight and fellow of the Table Round, slay me not, for I yield me
as overcome; and whether I shall live or die I put me in the king's
hands and yours.

And then the queen wagged her head upon Sir Launcelot, as though she
would say: Slay him.

And then she told the king where he was wounded, and of whom; and how
his mother had discovered in her pride how she had wrought that by
enchantment, so that he should never be whole until the best knight of
the world had searched his wounds.

And then the king commanded all the kings, dukes, and earls, and all
noble knights of the Round Table that were there that time present, to
come into the meadow of Carlisle.

And then noble Arthur said: Fair knight, me repenteth of thy hurt, and
for to courage all other noble knights I will pray thee softly to
suffer me to handle your wounds.

And then she prayed Sir Servause that he would promise her never to do
battle against Sir Launcelot du Lake, and in the same wise she prayed
Sir Launcelot never to do battle against Sir Servause, and so either
promised her.

And then all the kings and knights for the most part prayed Sir
Launcelot to search him; and then the wounded knight, Sir Urre, set
him up weakly, and prayed Sir Launcelot heartily, saying: Courteous
knight, I require thee for God's sake heal my wounds, for methinketh
ever sithen ye came here my wounds grieve me not.

And then he held up his hands, and looked into the east, saying
secretly unto himself: Thou blessed Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, I
beseech thee of thy mercy, that my simple worship and honesty be
saved, and thou blessed Trinity, thou mayst give power to heal this
sick knight by thy great virtue and grace of thee, but, Good Lord,
never of myself.

And then Sir Launcelot prayed Sir Urre to let him see his head; and
then devoutly kneeling he ransacked the three wounds, that they bled a
little, and forthwith all the wounds fair healed, and seemed as they
had been whole a seven year.

And then, as the French book saith, the queen and Launcelot were
together.

And then Sir Launcelot with great might drew that dead knight within
the chamber door; and Sir Launcelot with help of the queen and her
ladies was lightly armed in Sir Colgrevance's armour.

And then Sir Launcelot returned again unto the queen, and said: Madam,
now wit you well all our true love is brought to an end, for now will
King Arthur ever be my foe; and therefore, madam, an it like you that
I may have you with me, I shall save you from all manner adventures
dangerous.

And then he kissed her, and either gave other a ring; and so there he
left the queen, and went until his lodging.

And then shall ye bring again the queen to the king with great
worship; and then peradventure ye shall have thank for her bringing
home, and love and thank where other shall have maugre.

And then she thanked God and Sir Launcelot; and so he rode his way
with the queen, as the French book saith, unto Joyous Gard, and there
he kept her as a noble knight should do; and many great lords and some
kings sent Sir Launcelot many good knights, and many noble knights
drew unto Sir Launcelot.

And then he fell down and swooned, and long he lay there as he had
been dead.

And then, when he arose of his swoon, he cried out sorrowfully, and
said: Alas!

And then Sir Gawaine made many men to blow upon Sir Launcelot; and all
at once they called him false recreant knight.

And then Sir Launcelot's fellowship came out at three gates, in a full
good array; and Sir Lionel came in the foremost battle, and Sir
Launcelot came in the middle, and Sir Bors came out at the third gate.

And then either parties of the battles withdrew them to repose them,
and buried the dead, and to the wounded men they laid soft salves; and
thus they endured that night till on the morn.

And then Sir Bors led the forward.

And then within a little while, by evensong time, Sir Launcelot and
his party better stood, for their horses went in blood past the
fetlocks, there was so much people slain.

And then for pity Sir Launcelot withheld his knights, and suffered
King Arthur's party for to withdraw them aside.

And then Sir Launcelot's party withdrew them into his castle, and
either parties buried the dead, and put salve unto the wounded men.

And then the Bishop had of the king his great seal, and his assurance
as he was a true anointed king that Sir Launcelot should come safe,
and go safe, and that the queen should not be spoken unto of the king,
nor of none other, for no thing done afore time past; and of all these
appointments the Bishop brought with him sure assurance and writing,
to shew Sir Launcelot.

And then Sir Launcelot himself alighted and avoided his horse, and
took the queen, and so led her where King Arthur was in his seat: and
Sir Gawaine sat afore him, and many other great lords.

And then Sir Launcelot said unto Guenever, in hearing of the king and
them all: Madam, now I must depart from you and this noble fellowship
for ever; and sithen it is so, I beseech you to pray for me, and say
me well; and if ye be hard bestead by any false tongues, lightly my
lady send me word, and if any knight's hands may deliver you by
battle, I shall deliver you.

And then ever after he called it the Dolorous Gard.

And then Sir Launcelot stuffed and furnished and garnished all his
noble towns and castles.

And then he said: I pray to God, damosel, ye may speed well, for all
we that be about the king would Sir Launcelot did best of any knight
living.

And then his noble knights strode about him, and said: Sir Launcelot,
wherefore make ye such cheer, think what ye are, and what men we are,
and let us noble knights match them in midst of the field.

And then when it was past noon Sir Gawaine had no more but his own
might.

And then Sir Launcelot said: Now have good day, my lord the king, for
wit you well ye win no worship at these walls; and if I would my
knights outbring, there should many a man die.

And then Sir Launcelot armed him at all points, and mounted upon his
horse, and gat a great spear in his hand, and rode out at the gate.

And then they laid their spears in their rests, and they came together
as thunder, and Sir Gawaine brake his spear upon Sir Launcelot in a
hundred pieces unto his hand; and Sir Launcelot smote him with a
greater might, that Sir Gawaine's horse's feet raised, and so the
horse and he fell to the earth.

And then Sir Launcelot stood near Sir Gawaine, and then Sir Launcelot
doubled his strokes; and Sir Gawaine defended him mightily, but
nevertheless Sir Launcelot smote such a stroke upon Sir Gawaine's
helm, and upon the old wound, that Sir Gawaine sinked down upon his
one side in a swoon.

And then he turned him and went his way toward the city.

And then Sir Mordred sought the Bishop of Canterbury, for to have
slain him.

And then was noble Sir Gawaine found in a great boat, lying more than
half dead When Sir Arthur wist that Sir Gawaine was laid so low; he
went unto him; and there the king made sorrow out of measure, and took
Sir Gawaine in his arms, and thrice he there swooned.

And then when he awaked, he said: Alas, Sir Gawaine, my sister's son,
here now thou liest; the man in the world that I loved most; and now
is my joy gone, for now, my nephew Sir Gawaine, I will discover me
unto your person: in Sir Launcelot and you I most had my joy, and mine
affiance, and now have I lost my joy of you both; wherefore all mine
earthly joy is gone from me.

And then when paper and ink was brought, then Gawaine was set up
weakly by King Arthur, for he was shriven a little to-fore; and then
he wrote thus, as the French book maketh mention: Unto Sir Launcelot,
flower of all noble knights that ever I heard of or saw by my days, I,
Sir Gawaine, King Lot's son of Orkney, sister's son unto the noble
King Arthur, send thee greeting, and let thee have knowledge that the
tenth day of May I was smitten upon the old wound that thou gavest me
afore the city of Benwick, and through the same wound that thou gavest
me I am come to my death-day.

And then Sir Gawaine prayed the king for to send for Sir Launcelot,
and to cherish him above all other knights.

And then they said that Sir Mordred warred upon King Arthur with
wrong.

And then knights, squires, and yeomen, awaked the king; and then he
was so amazed that he wist not where he was; and then he fell
a-slumbering again, not sleeping nor thoroughly waking.

And then Sir Bedivere hid Excalibur under a tree.

And then that queen said: Ah, dear brother, why have ye tarried so
long from me?

And then certain people of the town brought him into the castle of
Dover, and shewed him the tomb.

And then he kneeled down on his knee, and prayed the Bishop to shrive
him and assoil him.

And then he besought the Bishop that he might be his brother.

And then Sir Lionel took fifteen lords with him, and rode to London to
seek Sir Launcelot; and there Sir Lionel was slain and many of his
lords.

And then she was wrapped in cered cloth of Raines, from the top to the
toe, in thirtyfold, and after she was put in a web of lead, and then
in a coffin of marble.

And then this King Constantine sent for the Bishop of Canterbury, for
he heard say where he was.

And then I go the furthest off To counteract a knock; Then draw my
little letter forth And softly pick its lock.

And then he drank a dew From a convenient grass, And then hopped
sidewise to the wall To let a beetle pass.

And then you bring news, do you not?

And then he added some fine words: he said, `I have friends on the
other side of the channel, and these friends only want a leader and a
banner.

And then I asked him `Do you think, to such a degree that it will urge
him to act contrary to the designs of his eminence?

And then -- no -- he is not the man I want.

"And then the army."

And then, truly, a company of thirty men, when all together, will look
rather imposing.

And then England is a very inconvenient country for transports.

And then, a thing sufficiently disquieting for a man with such
foresight as our musketeer, he found himself alone; and even the
friendship of Athos could not restore his confidence.

"And then?"

And then I went into England -- no more D'Artagnan.

And then, on rendering his soul to the devil, he would recommend Anne
of Austria to make me the inhabitant of a safe place.

"And then, sire?"

"And then you will travel slowly through Bretagne, and will examine
carefully the fortifications of that country."

And then, aloud: "Is it not Gourville?

"And then, in addition to being better lighted and eating what we
prefer, I place the pleasure of your company."

"And then Porthos?"

"And then, that is not the true reason."

"And then yours, De Wardes?"

And then again turning towards the young man, he said, "Do you not
remember to have been visited at some time or another by a strange
lady or gentleman?

And then, even in his trouble, he remembered the old saw that "What is
done is done; and the egg cracked cannot be cured.

And then with lank and lean discolour'd cheek, With heavy eye, knit
brow, and strengthless pace, Feeble desire, all recreant, poor, and
meek, Like to a bankrupt beggar wails his case: The flesh being proud,
desire doth fight with Grace, For there it revels; and when that
decays, The guilty rebel for remission prays.

And then with kind embracements, tempting kisses, And with declining
head into his bosom, Bid him shed tears, as being overjoy'd To see her
noble lord restor'd to health, Who for this seven years hath esteemed
him No better than a poor and loathsome beggar.

And then?

And then to scape drowning thrice, and to be in peril of my life with
the edge of a feather-bed; here are simple 'scapes.

And then I stole all courtesy from Heaven, And dress'd myself in such
humility, That I did pluck allegiance from men's hearts, Loud shouts
and salutations from their mouths, Even in the presence of the crowned
King.

And then he offered it the third time; he put it the third time by;
and still, as he refused it, the rabblement shouted, and clapp'd their
chopt hands, and threw up their sweaty night-caps, and uttered such a
deal of stinking breath because Caesar refused the crown, that it had
almost choked Caesar, for he swooned and fell down at it: and for mine
own part, I durst not laugh for fear of opening my lips and receiving
the bad air.

And then he drew a dial from his poke, And, looking on it with lack-
lustre eye, Says very wisely, 'It is ten o'clock: Thus we may see,'
quoth he, 'how the world wags; 'Tis but an hour ago since it was nine;
And after one hour more 'twill be eleven; And so, from hour to hour,
we ripe and ripe, And then, from hour to hour, we rot and rot; And
thereby hangs a tale.

And then the lover, Sighing like furnace, with a woeful ballad Made to
his mistress' eyebrow.

And then the justice, In fair round belly with good capon lin'd, With
eyes severe and beard of formal cut, Full of wise saws and modern
instances; And so he plays his part.

And then it started, like a guilty thing Upon a fearful summons.

And then, sir, does he this,--he does--What was I about to say?-- By
the mass, I was about to say something:--Where did I leave?

And then to have the humour of state: and after a demure travel of
regard,--telling them I know my place as I would they should do
theirs,--to ask for my kinsman Toby.

And then I comes behind.

And then, forsooth, the faint defects of age Must be the scene of
mirth: to cough and spit And, with a palsy-fumbling on his gorget,
Shake in and out the rivet.

And then to glance from him to the duke himself, To tax him with
injustice?

And then for her To win the Moor,--were't to renounce his baptism, All
seals and symbols of redeemed sin,-- His soul is so enfetter'd to her
love That she may make, unmake, do what she list, Even as her appetite
shall play the god With his weak function.

And then his banishment.

And then for the land service,--to see how the bear tore out his
shoulder-bone; how he cried to me for help, and said his name was
Antigonus, a nobleman.--But to make an end of the ship,--to see how
the sea flap-dragon'd it:--but first, how the poor souls roared, and
the sea mocked them;--and how the poor gentleman roared, and the bear
mocked him,--both roaring louder than the sea or weather.

And then I lost,-- All mine own folly,--the society, Amity too, of
your brave father, whom, Though bearing misery, I desire my life Once
more to look on him.

And then I am sure she would love me.

And then wee'l sleepe together.

And then, when we were at sea, sailing from port to port, instead of
giving us "watch and watch," as was the custom on board every other
vessel on the coast, we were all kept on deck and at work, rain or
shine, making spun-yarn and rope, and at other work in good weather,
and picking oakum, when it was too wet for anything else.

And then there were (beside the captain) three officers, steward,
agent and clerk.

And then will I profess unto them, I never knew you: depart from me,
you that work iniquity.

And then shall many be scandalized and shall betray one another and
shall hate one another.

And then shall appear the sign of the Son of man in heaven.

And then if any man shall say to you: Lo, here is Christ.

And then shall they see the Son of man coming in the clouds, with
great power and glory.

And then shall he send his angels and shall gather together his elect
from the four winds, from the uttermost part of the earth to the
uttermost part of heaven.

And then thou begin with shame to take the lowest place.

And then they shall see the Son of man coming in a cloud, with great
power and majesty.

And thence they sailed to Antioch, from whence they had been delivered
to the grace of God, unto the work which they accomplished.

And then immediately the brethren sent away Paul, to go unto the sea:
but Silas and Timothy remained there.

And then shall every man have praise from God.

And then that wicked one shall be revealed: whom the Lord Jesus shall
kill with the spirit of his mouth and shall destroy with the
brightness of his coming: him 2:9.

And then again "He laid up seven days.

"And then, my lord," continued Rochefort, "you understand that to
emerge from the Bastile in order to enter Vincennes is only to change
one's prison."

And then he was older than any of us," added D'Artagnan.

And then," resumed D'Artagnan, "to this decrepitude is probably added
poverty, for he must have neglected the little that he had, and the
dirty scoundrel, Grimaud, more taciturn than ever and still more
drunken than his master -- stay, Planchet, it breaks my heart to
merely think of it.

"And then?"

And then philosophic ideas are wholly wanting in Voiture's works, but
I am of the same opinion as the coadjutor -- he is a poet, a true
poet.

"And then," said Aramis, with the tone of philosophical indifference
which he had assumed since he had belonged to the church and in which
there was more atheism than confidence in God, "what is the use of
thinking of it all?"

And then, sir, do you wish me to speak freely to you?

"And then Monsieur de Chatillon will not come to the Place Royale to
look for you."

"And then I feel the loss of my house, 'tis a long time since I
visited my castles."

And then, besides, the useless blood!

"And then?"

And then it is to be remembered that "our fathers; who framed the
Government under which we live",--the men who made the Constitution--
decided this same constitutional question in our favor, long ago;
decided it without division among themselves, when making the
decision, without division among themselves about the meaning of it
after it was made, and, so far as any evidence is left, without basing
it upon any mistaken statement of facts.

And then what about Carl Schurz; or, in other words, what about our
German friends?

And then there was the singular possessive adjective: "'Our' balloon;
'our' car; 'our' expedition.

And then I am very ungenerously attacked for it!

And then the latter will cost no blood, no precious life.

And then these camels were no use, and Peachey said to Dravot—‘For the
Lord’s sake, let’s get out of this before our heads are chopped off,’
and with that they killed the camels all among the mountains, not
having anything in particular to eat, but first they took off the
boxes with the guns and the ammunition, till two men came along
driving four mules.

'And then I saw it, the fairy city, Far away o'er the waters deep;
Towers and castles and chapels glowing Like blesséd dreams that we see
in sleep.

And then they all, king and court, saw it glide away over the bright
sea towards the setting sun.

And then I came home.

And then," said the Gruagach, "he is the only man in the whole world I
have ever told why I stopped laughing, and the only one who has ever
seen my fleece of wool.

And then what a thing to ask for!

And then he sat down to rest.

And then, honoured sir, and then, I, being at the time a widower, with
a daughter of fourteen left me by my first wife, offered her my hand,
for I could not bear the sight of such suffering.

And then I will go of myself to be crucified, for it's not merry-
making I seek but tears and tribulation!

And then I called the porter, and Karl came, and he took Karl and hit
him in the eye; and he hit Henriette in the eye, too, and gave me five
slaps on the cheek.

And then he shouted that /man muss/ pay him fifteen roubles damages.

And then it's all over!

And then to his intense amazement he caught the voice of his landlady.

And then you asked so piteously for fringe for your trousers.

And then Dmitri escaped and ran into the street, and I ran after him;
but I did not catch him, and went back to the flat alone; I had to
clear up my things.

And then there are nerves, there are nerves, you have overlooked them!

And then how they all suffer from spleen!

And then what about your trembling, what about your bell-ringing in
your illness, in semi-delirium?

And then to regard this work of cleansing and beautifying the domains
of Mount Zion as that preparatory to the visitation of the Most High,
is something which speaks to the heart and says: 'Dost thou appear as
beautiful, as clean, and as comely in the sight of God as do these
elements of an unthinking world?

And then I crashed over the precipice towards whose edge I had been
blindly going.

And then all these dollar-grabbing Yankees, enjoying all the
advantages of war without any of its dangers--they make me sick.

And then I must be silent and can only await your coming.

"And then?"

And then he went out and locked the door.

And then that laughed and twirled that's tail till you couldn't hardly
see it.

And then they all started a-crying worse than before.

And then they went in and took possession of the house.

And then they took out the princess and laid her on the bank.

And then she went on and on till she came to a great house.

And then the ogre began to nod his head, and to snore till the house
shook.

And then the King and Jack shook hands together.

And then she tasted the porridge of the Middle Bear, and that was too
cold for her; and she said a bad word about that too.

And then she went to the porridge of the Little, Small, Wee Bear, and
tasted that; and that was neither too hot, nor too cold, but just
right; and she liked it so well, that she ate it all up: but the
naughty old Woman said a bad word about the little porridge-pot,
because it did not hold enough for her.

And then she sate down in the chair of the Middle Bear, and that was
too soft for her.

And then she sate down in the chair of the Little, Small, Wee Bear,
and that was neither too hard, nor too soft, but just right.

And then she lay down upon the bed of the Little, Small, Wee Bear; and
that was neither too high at the head, nor at the foot, but just
right.

And then after they had talked a little longer Childe Rowland began to
feel hungry from his long travels, and told his sister Burd Ellen how
hungry he was and asked for some food, forgetting all about the
Warlock Merlin's warning.

And then the folding-doors of the hall were burst open, and the King
of Elfland rushed in.

And then the third head asked: "The dead carrying the living; riddle
me that?

And then he put the three questions to him; but the young man had been
told everything by the good fairy, so he was able to answer all the
questions.

And then I went upstairs, and came to a gallery, at the end of which
was a door, on which was written: BE BOLD, BE BOLD, BUT NOT TOO BOLD,
LEST THAT YOUR HEART'S BLOOD SHOULD RUN COLD.

And then--and then I opened the door, and the room was filled with
bodies and skeletons of poor dead women, all stained with their blood.

And then he gave it to the girl, bidding her begone.

And then appeared Goldsmith, too much influenced by the fad of
sensibility, but aiming to depict human life as governed by high
ideals, and helping to cleanse the English novel from brutality and
indecency.

And then came a period of unusual irritation, to which we owe, in part
at least, Carlyle's railings against progress and his deplorable
criticism of England's great men and women,--poor little Browning,
animalcular De Quincey, rabbit-brained Newman, sawdustish Mill,
chattering George Eliot, ghastly-shrieky Shelley, once-enough Lamb,
stinted-scanty Wordsworth, poor thin fool Darwin and his book (_The
Origin of Species_, of which Carlyle confessed he never read a page)
which was wonderful as an example of the stupidity of mankind.

And then a new earth will rise from the sea.

And then it dawned upon me that Césarine had known all about the
diamonds and their story; that it was Césarine who took us to see
Schloss Lebenstein; that it was Césarine who posted the letter to Lord
Craig-Ellachie!

And then he went at full into the comparative geology of the two
regions.

And then he relapsed into moody silence.

And then I awoke, and lo!

And then?

And then, I hear, will wonderful things be done, The art poetic will
be weighed in scales.

And then I should be so sorry to leave Mrs. Alving; she has always
been so kind to me.

And then I had to struggle twice as hard, fighting as though for life
or death, so that nobody should know what sort of man my child's
father was.

And then I heard--[With a short laugh]--oh!

And then we are, one and all, so pitifully afraid of the light.

And then I understood that it was all machine-sewn.

And then, when I was for giving them a bit of an admonition to lead a
new life-- MRS. ALVING.

And then we will pass an edifying hour together, my good fellow; for
now I quite believe you are in the right frame of mind.

And then the old cynic said--[Clenching his fist] Oh--!

And then, mother, to cause you all this sorrow!

And then--it's so dark here!

And then?

And then she gave me such a strange look, and asked, "But what's to
become of my trip to Paris?

And then, too, the joy of work!

And then you can choose.

And then to go straight away down and set light to the whole thing!

And then; day after day, I dwelt on the one thought that by rights
Regina should be at home in this house--just like my own boy.

And then you can be so useful to me, now that I am ill. MRS. ALVING.

And then you will know all.

And then I shall not feel this dread any longer.

And then there are wider pieces to protect it at the ends.

And then there is one further reason, psychological perhaps, but none
the less important; you will watch these little trees, which are
largely the result of your own labor and care, when set in their
permanent positions, much more carefully than you would those direct
from the nursery.

And then, as the women were preparing to leave the library, "Tell me,
Esperance, who is the Countess Styvens?

And then, after passing a little wood, the island itself came into
view.

And then in the evening when the fog begins, my little boy, he coughs
so, and that makes me shiver; then I take him in my bed, but my blood
is not warm enough so he can't get warm.

And then kneeling before her, "Forgive me, I am going; I am leaving
you ... but I entreat you to forgive me.

And then sometimes I see a piece of a picture, no beginning, no end,
sometimes horrible, sometimes lovely.

And then, just when I was beginning to think I might safely pop down
in that direction and gather up the dropped threads, so to speak,
time, instead of working the healing wheeze, went and pulled the most
awful bone and put the lid on it.

And then a soothing voice broke the silence.

And then suddenly he began to laugh in a wild way.

And then Lady Malvern came back, a good bit ahead of schedule.

And then the early bed and the refreshing sleep.

And then she said "Oh!

And then she began.

And then he had crawled away with the kid, licked to a splinter.

And then he'd go all to pieces again.

And then she began to laugh.

And then----" "You must have shown a flash of speed if you got her to
confide in you after knowing you for about two hours.

And then a sudden thought struck me which brought me out in a cold
perspiration.

And then I began to see daylight.

And then by a miracle this robbery of the Romney takes place at a
house not two miles away.

And then a chair falling over.

And then we pulled up sharp, staring.

And then Clarence married, and in a mad moment I gave my treasure to
him.

And then I had to cram myself into these confounded evening clothes of
yours.

And then she awoke.

And then he told Olaf how, "in the great trading place which is called
Southwark," the Danes had raised "a great work and dug large ditches,
and within had builded a bulwark of stone, timber, and turf, where
they had stationed a large army.

And then Amyas calls: "Now, silence trumpets, waits, play up!

And then again to quarters; for half the day's work, or more than
half, still remained to be done; and hardly were the decks cleared
afresh, and the damage repaired as best it could be, when she came
ranging up to leeward, as closehauled as she could.

And then began a fight most fierce and fell; the Spaniards, according
to their fashion, attempted to board, the English, amid fierce shouts
of "God and the Queen!

And then, suddenly collecting themselves, as men awakened from a
dream, half-a-dozen desperate gallants, reckless of sharks and eddies,
leaped overboard, swam toward the flag, and towed it alongside in
triumph.

And then, sword in hand, he sprang over into the sea.

And then at the signal of two fusees and the watchword, "With the help
of God," he ordered his cannon to open on the Russian trenches, and
through a furious snow-storm charged straight upon the enemy.

And then June laughed softly once more.

And then there is my uncle....

And then all at once a marsh was squelching under our feet, and we saw
little round moss-covered hillocks which I had never noticed before
either.... We turned back--a small hill was sharply before us and on
the top of it stood a shanty--and in it someone was snoring.

And then I told him all about it.

And then, gentlemen, I howled like a calf and I am not ashamed to say
so; I stooped down to the friend who had saved my life twice over and
kissed his head, again and again.

And then began a great slaughter of men; none escaped but the foremost
of those who had fled or who hid themselves.

And then describe the nature of the senses.

And then you occupy yourself with miracles, and write that you possess
information of those things of which the human mind is incapable and
which cannot be proved by any instance from nature.

And then she cried: "Now hear me, O my love!

And then the merchant said, "_Dyangs_, if ye Love Bidasari, see ye vex
her not.

And then The princess sought her room, and curtains drew Of rich
Egyptian stuff.

And then, as he says, it will be too late to return to earth and get
me," thought Mark bitterly.

And then the scream died away, and there was silence.

And then there's another thing," said Mark, as if he was cataloguing a
list of their troubles.

And then he wrote the letter to the darling Moorish slave, And this is
the tender message that royal Chico gave: THE LETTER OF THE KING "Thy
words have done me grievous wrong, for, lovely Mooress, couldst thou
think That he who loves thee more than life could e'er to such a
treachery sink?

And then the flowery garland she tied upon his head, "Thy face is
delicate and fair as Ganymede's," she said; "And if great Jove beheld
thee now, he'd send his eagle down, To take thee to the palace halls
that high Olympus crown.

And then a miser, rich in gold, Who locks away some jewel bright, For
fear the thief a gem may steal, Which yet can yield him no delight.

And then I answered to you, 'Greetings to you also.

And then shall some one say who sees thee weep, 'This was the wife of
Hector, most renowned Of the horse-taming Trojans, when they fought
Around their city.

And then he took his place Upon the threshold, and essayed the bow;
And thrice he made the attempt, and thrice gave o'er, Yet hoping still
to draw the cord, and send An arrow through the rings.

* * * * * ... And then Eupeithes' son, Antinoüs, to the crowd of
suitors said:-- "Rise one by one, my friends, from right to left.

And then the King Alfonso gave command to clear the ground, And gather
in the relics of the battle strewed around.

And then they woke, and came the hour around Which had been wont our
scanty meal to bring; But from our dreams dumb terrors seemed to
spring; "When from below we heard the dreadful sound Of nails; the
horrible tower was closed; all dumb I let my gaze into my sons' eyes
come.

And then observe the superior effect of putting them first:--"Were the
honour now given to wealth and title given exclusively to high
achievements and intrinsic worth, how immense would be the stimulus to
progress!

And then, with a smiling countenance, she added: "Oh!

And then, too, my grief!

And then he wondered all about their lives, their hearts, Their
thoughts, their feelings, and their dreams, Their joys and sorrows,
and their smiles and tears.

And then the poet, in an access of patriotism, cries out: "And what,
in fine, art thou, O Israel, but a poor _Bahur_ among the peoples,
eating one day with one of them, another day with the other!...

And then, in the peroration that follows, he rouses the passions of
the judges by a glowing picture of Clodius's guilt, balanced by an
equally glowing one of Milo's virtues; he shows that Providence itself
had intervened to bring the sinful career of Clodius to an end, and
sanctified Milo by making him its instrument, and he concludes with a
brilliant avowal of love and admiration for his client, for whose
loss, if he is to be condemned, nothing can ever console him.

And then his pupils loved him better than they imitated him, and in
their imitations fell as much below him as he had fallen below the
ancients.

And thenceforward he persevered in slighting upon all occasions, and
even in private conversation, this divine worship of himself.

And then David asks for it before inquiring of Jahveh whether the men
of Keilah would betray him or not.

And then there arose in my mind the recollection of a fact, which
probably no one here but myself remembers; namely, that some fourteen
years ago I was the guest of a citizen of yours, who bears the
honoured name of Rathbone, at a very charming and pleasant dinner
given by the Philomathic Society; and I there and then, and in this
very city, made a speech upon the topic of Scientific Education.

And then the moral and intellectual effect of drill, as an
introduction to, and aid of, all other sorts of training, must not be
overlooked.

And then consider the great historical fact that, for three centuries,
this book has been woven into the life of all that is best and noblest
in English history; that it has become the national epic of Britain,
and is as familiar to noble and simple, from John-o'-Groat's House to
Land's End, as Dante and Tasso once were to the Italians; that it is
written in the noblest and purest English, and abounds in exquisite
beauties of mere literary form; and, finally, that it forbids the
veriest hind who never left his village to be ignorant of the
existence of other countries and other civilisations, and of a great
past, stretching back to the furthest limits of the oldest nations in
the world.

And then, gradually, the memory of her would dissolve and vanish,
until I had forgotten the maiden of my dream.

And then, abruptly, the memory of his dead wife returned to him, and
probably thinking it too complicated to inquire into how, at such a
time, he could have allowed himself to be carried away by an impulse
of happiness, he confined himself to a gesture which he habitually
employed whenever any perplexing question came into his mind: that is,
he passed his hand across his forehead, dried his eyes, and wiped his
glasses.

And then, in the gilt and tooled volumes which we open once in ten
years," he went on, shewing that contempt for the things of this world
which some men of the world like to affect, "we should read that the
Queen of the Hellenes had arrived at Cannes, or that the Princesse de
Léon had given a fancy dress ball.

And then, feeling that my mind is growing fatigued without having any
success to report, I compel it for a change to enjoy that distraction
which I have just denied it, to think of other things, to rest and
refresh itself before the supreme attempt.

And then the apse of Combray: what am I to say of that?

And then my thoughts, did not they form a similar sort of hiding-hole,
in the depths of which I felt that I could bury myself and remain
invisible even when I was looking at what went on outside?

And then, as I continue to trace the outward course of these
impressions from their close-packed intimate source in my
consciousness, and before I come to the horizon of reality which
envelops them, I discover pleasures of another kind, those of being
comfortably seated, of tasting the good scent on the air, of not being
disturbed by any visitor; and, when an hour chimed from the steeple of
Saint-Hilaire, of watching what was already spent of the afternoon
fall drop by drop until I heard the last stroke which enabled me to
add up the total sum, after which the silence that followed seemed to
herald the beginning, in the blue sky above me, of that long part of
the day still allowed me for reading, until the good dinner which
Françoise was even now preparing should come to strengthen and refresh
me after the strenuous pursuit of its hero through the pages of my
book.

And then another thing; you can see at the same time places which you
are in the habit of seeing one without the other, as, for instance,
the course of the Vivonne and the ditches at Saint-Assise-lès-Combray,
which are separated, really, by a screen of tall trees; or, to take
another example, there are all the canals at Jouy-le-Vicomte, which is
_Gaudiacus vicecomitis_, as of course you know.

And then, as though it had slipped, with his latchkey, from his
waistcoat pocket, he would point out to us, when it stood before our
eyes, the back-gate of our own garden, which had come hand-in-hand
with the familiar corner of the Rue du Saint-Esprit, to await us, to
greet us at the end of our wanderings over paths unknown.

And then I returned to my hawthorns, and stood before them as one
stands before those masterpieces of painting which, one imagines, one
will be better able to 'take in' when one has looked away, for a
moment, at something else; but in vain did I shape my fingers into a
frame, so as to have nothing but the hawthorns before my eyes; the
sentiment which they aroused in me remained obscure and vague,
struggling and failing to free itself, to float across and become one
with the flowers.

And then, inspiring me with that rapture which we feel on seeing a
work by our favourite painter quite different from any of those that
we already know, or, better still, when some one has taken us and set
us down in front of a picture of which we have hitherto seen no more
than a pencilled sketch, or when a piece of music which we have heard
played over on the piano bursts out again in our ears with all the
splendour and fullness of an orchestra, my grandfather called me to
him, and, pointing to the hedge of Tansonville, said: "You are fond of
hawthorns; just look at this pink one; isn't it pretty?

And then I would be obliged to pause for breath; so stifling was the
pressure, upon that part of me where it was for ever inscribed, of
that name which, at the moment when I heard it, seemed to me fuller,
more portentous than any other name, because it was burdened with the
weight of all the occasions on which I had secretly uttered it in my
mind.

And then it occurred to me suddenly that my parents could not fail to
experience the same emotions, that they must find themselves sharing
my point of view, that they perceived in their turn, that they
condoned, that they even embraced my visionary longings, and I was as
wretched as though I had ravished and corrupted the innocence of their
hearts.

And then he plays music too, with his daughter's friend.

And then, so strong an element of hypocrisy is there in even the most
sincere of men, who cast off, while they are talking to anyone, the
opinion they actually hold of him and will express when he is no
longer there, my family joined with M. Vinteuil in deploring Swann's
marriage, invoking principles and conventions which (all the more
because they invoked them in common with him, as though we were all
thorough good fellows of the same sort) they appeared to suggest were
in no way infringed at Montjouvain.

And then her friend came in.

And then when the corn is all ripe, down it will come, rattling all
over the place, and think no more of where it is falling than if it
was on the sea!

And then it happened that, going the 'Guermantes way,' I passed
occasionally by a row of well-watered little gardens, over whose
hedges rose clusters of dark blossom.

And then--oh, marvellous independence of the human gaze, tied to the
human face by a cord so loose, so long, so elastic that it can stray,
alone, as far as it may choose--while Mme.

"And then, besides, there's yourself----" he had continued, "I know
what women are; you must have a whole heap of things to do, and never
any time to spare."

And then, suddenly having reached a certain point from which he was
prepared to follow it, after pausing for a moment, abruptly it changed
its direction, and in a fresh movement, more rapid, multiform,
melancholy, incessant, sweet, it bore him off with it towards a vista
of joys unknown.

And then, when he was once inside, without thinking, his eyes sparkled
suddenly with such radiant happiness that M. Verdurin said to the
painter: "H'm.

And then, in a moment of illumination, like a man in a fever who
awakes from sleep and is conscious of the absurdity of the dream-
shapes among which his mind has been wandering without any clear
distinction between himself and them, Swann suddenly perceived how
foreign to his nature were the thoughts which he had been revolving in
his mind ever since he had heard at the Verdurins' that Odette had
left, how novel the heartache from which he was suffering, but of
which he was only now conscious, as though he had just woken up.

And then, as soon as he had left the house, not without returning to
kiss her once again, because he had forgotten to take away with him,
in memory, some detail of her fragrance or of her features, while he
drove home in his victoria, blessing the name of Odette who allowed
him to pay her these daily visits, which, although they could not, he
felt, bring any great happiness to her, still, by keeping him immune
from the fever of jealousy--by removing from him every possibility of
a fresh outbreak of the heart-sickness which had manifested itself in
him that evening, when he had failed to find her at the Verdurins'--
might help him to arrive, without any recurrence of those crises, of
which the first had been so distressing that it must also be the last,
at the termination of this strange series of hours in his life, hours
almost enchanted, in the same manner as these other, following hours,
in which he drove through a deserted Paris by the light of the moon:
noticing as he drove home that the satellite had now changed its
position, relatively to his own, and was almost touching the horizon;
feeling that his love, also, was obedient to these immutable laws of
nature, he asked himself whether this period, upon which he had
entered, was to last much longer, whether presently his mind's eye
would cease to behold that dear countenance, save as occupying a
distant and diminished position, and on the verge of ceasing to shed
on him the radiance of its charm.

And then, in her joy and confusion at the combination of neatness and
daring which there had been in making so discreet and yet so
unmistakable an allusion to the new and brilliantly successful play by
Dumas, she broke down in a charming, girlish laugh, not very loud, but
so irresistible that it was some time before she could control it.

And then, perhaps a little ashamed of her rudeness, "It doesn't
matter; take your time about it; there's no hurry; I only reminded you
because of the others, you know; it keeps the servants back.

And then, after all, if Swann tries to come the man of fashion over
us, the champion of distressed Duchesses, at any rate the other man
has got a title; he's always Comte de Forcheville!

And then, suddenly, he asked himself whether that was not precisely
what was implied by 'keeping' a woman (as if, in fact, that idea of
'keeping' could be derived from elements not at all mysterious nor
perverse, but belonging to the intimate routine of his daily life,
such as that thousand-franc note, a familiar and domestic object, torn
in places and mended with gummed paper, which his valet, after paying
the household accounts and the rent, had locked up hi a drawer in the
old writing-desk whence he had extracted it to send it, with four
others, to Odette) and whether it was not possible to apply to Odette,
since he had known her (for he never imagined for a moment that she
could ever have taken a penny from anyone else, before), that title,
which he had believed so wholly inapplicable to her, of 'kept' woman.

And then, when he reflected that, merely by coming at an hour when he
was not in the habit of coming, he had managed to disturb so many
arrangements of which she did not wish him to know, he had a feeling
of discouragement that amounted, almost, to distress.

And then she would say quite simply, without taking (as she would once
have taken) the precaution of covering herself, at all costs, with a
little fragment borrowed from the truth, that she had just, at that
very moment, arrived by the morning train.

And then, while she was making them some orangeade, suddenly, just as
when the reflector of a lamp that is badly fitted begins by casting
all round an object, on the wall beyond it, huge and fantastic shadows
which, in time, contract and are lost in the shadow of the object
itself, all the terrible and disturbing ideas which he had formed of
Odette melted away and vanished in the charming creature who stood
there before his eyes.

And then, as she belonged to that witty 'Guermantes set'--in which
there survived something of the alert mentality, stripped of all
commonplace phrases and conventional sentiments, which dated from
Mérimée, and found its final expression in the plays of Meilhac and
Halévy--she adapted its formula so as to suit even her social
engagements, transposed it into the courtesy which was always
struggling to be positive and precise, to approximate itself to the
plain truth.

And then, seeing that M. de Froberville was still gazing at Mme.

And then, examining the Princess's headdress, "Why, you're quite
right; it is copied from... what shall I say, not chestnuts, no,--oh,
it's a delightful idea, but how can the Princess have known what was
going to be on my programme?

And then, his anguish becoming too keen, he passed his hand over his
forehead, let the monocle drop from his eye, and wiped its glass.

And then, being still deeply moved by his dream, he would thank heaven
for those special circumstances which made him independent, thanks to
which he could remain in Odette's vicinity, and could even succeed in
making her allow him to see her sometimes; and, counting over the list
of his advantages: his social position--his fortune, from which she
stood too often in need of assistance not to shrink from the prospect
of a definite rupture (having even, so people said, an ulterior plan
of getting him to marry her)--his friendship with M. de Charlus,
which, it must be confessed, had never won him any very great favour
from Odette, but which gave him the pleasant feeling that she was
always hearing complimentary things said about him by this common
friend for whom she had so great an esteem--and even his own
intelligence, the whole of which he employed in weaving, every day, a
fresh plot which would make his presence, if not agreeable, at any
rate necessary to Odette --he thought of what might have happened to
him if all these advantages had been lacking, he thought that, if he
had been, like so many other men, poor and humble, without resources,
forced to undertake any task that might be offered to him, or tied
down by parents or by a wife, he might have been obliged to part from
Odette, that that dream, the terror of which was still so recent,
might well have been true; and he said to himself: "People don't know
when they are happy.

And then, how were we not to suppose that our servants, living in a
situation inferior to our own, adding to our fortunes and to our
frailties imaginary riches and vices for which they at once envied and
despised us, should not find themselves led by fate to act in a manner
abhorrent to people of our own class?

And then you'd be a lot better off!

And then a whisper ran through the whole congregation, "Who is she?

And then holding forth the broken arm, he began a long and very
learned lecture of anatomy, in which simple and double fractures were
most accurately considered; and the several ways in which Jones might
have broken his arm were discussed, with proper annotations showing
how many of these would have been better, and how many worse than the
present case.

And then turning to Mrs Honour, she asked her "How she had the
assurance to mention her name with disrespect?

And then proceeding to his operation, "Sir," said he, "since I have
dealt in suds, I could never discover more than two reasons for
shaving; the one is to get a beard, and the other to get rid of one.

And then burst forth a volley of oaths and execrations.

And then Jones very briskly cried out, "Since it is absolutely
impossible for me to pursue any farther the steps of my angel--I will
pursue those of glory.

And then there are those cannons, which certainly it must be thought
the highest presumption to go in the way of; and nobody but a madman--
I ask pardon; upon my soul I meant no harm; I beg I may not throw your
honour into another passion.

And then, to be sure, in that scene, as you called it, between him and
his mother, where you told me he acted so fine, why, Lord help me, any
man, that is, any good man, that had such a mother, would have done
exactly the same.

And then, drawing his sword, put himself in a posture of defence,
which was the only science he understood.

And then repeated a most solemn protestation, "That he was no more the
father of Jones than of the Pope of Rome;" and imprecated the most
bitter curses on his head, if he did not speak truth.

And then, as if exclaiming, said: Oh, covetousness of the human race,
thinking that even the whole earth is too little for it!

And then began the first examination of that part of the great
Antarctic Barrier which has since been named the Ross Barrier.

And then there is the obvious advantage that dog can be fed on dog.

And then one must be an old hand to know what has happened.

And then this enthusiastic listener tells them how he once heard the
same song, but with a very different result.

And then the whip duel began.

And then there was the dog-harness, which we must all have in order.

And then we were off: It was a hard pull to begin with, both for men
and beasts, as the high sastrugi continued towards the south, and made
it extremely difficult to advance.

And then the travelling tent was taken down and the sledges packed.

And then there was the fearful heat -- considering the circumstances
-- which often made us get out of our sleeping-bags and lie with
nothing over us.

And then, to the vast astonishment of Standish and of the others who
had gathered to his support, he opened his mouth and spoke English:
"Welcome, Englishmen!

And then, as a symbol of the Puritan protest, and a pledge of his
vital sincerity, he took the banner in his hand, and, drawing his
sword, cut the cross out of its folds.

And then was poetical justice made complete; for who should appear
before the helpless forts but Evertsen with a Dutch fleet!

And then Massachusetts turned once more to her deadlier enemy, King
Charles.

And then, to prove once more how far above all else they prized
principle, they passed a Navigation Act of their own, which met all
the king's stipulations.

And then these persons would look around at the miles of unconquerable
nature stretching out on every side; and they would reflect upon the
thousands of leagues of salt water that parted them from the king who
was the source of these unwelcome orders; and, finally, they would
glance at the travel-stained and weary envoy with a pitying smile, and
offer him food and drink and a bed--but not obedience.

And then Cotton Mather would go home to his secret chamber, and write
in his diary that God and religion were perhaps, after all, but an old
wives' tale.

And then, here was the Alleghany to cross again, and no horse to help
one.

And then, punishments must be administered; but if punishment is for
improvement, it has been as ineffective as the treaties.

And then the gentle rebuke of Jonah's petulant narrowness!

And then suddenly the whole business came to an end.

And then I think that what he foresaw happened.

And then the incident of the grey cloth seen by young McCarthy.

And then, as a second thought, why should she come at all?

And then, seeing that there were two of us, she gave a cry of hope
which sank into a groan as she saw that my companion shook his head
and shrugged his shoulders.

And then, seeing that I smiled and shook my head, she suddenly threw
aside her constraint and made a step forward, with her hands wrung
together.

"And then suddenly in the silence I heard a sound which sent my heart
into my mouth."

And then, realising the dreadful position in which I was placed, I
implored him to remember that not only my honour but that of one who
was far greater than I was at stake; and that he threatened to raise a
scandal which would convulse the nation.

And then, suddenly, came a face that he could not relate to the other
faces.

And then, as Archer made no effort to glance at the paper or to
repudiate the suggestion, the lawyer somewhat flatly continued: "I
don't say it's conclusive, you observe; far from it.

And then it came over him, in a vast flash made up of many broken
gleams, that to all of them he and Madame Olenska were lovers, lovers
in the extreme sense peculiar to "foreign" vocabularies.

And then, as he was silent, she went on, in tones so clear and evenly-
pitched that each separate syllable tapped like a little hammer on his
brain: "That is, if the doctors will let me go .

And then, how charming to be entrusted with the care and education of
children!

And then he said,--"Well," says he, "you must come to church, where
you'll hear the Scriptures properly explained, instead of sitting
poring over your Bible at home.

And then, them dreadful words, "Many shall seek to enter in, and shall
not be able.

And then I thought he adored me, and would let me have my own way: he
did pretend to do so at first, but now he does not care a bit about
me.

And then he must needs have me down in the country, to lead the life
of a nun, lest I should dishonour him or bring him to ruin; as if he
had not been ten times worse every way, with his betting-book, and his
gaming- table, and his opera-girls, and his Lady This and Mrs. That--
yes, and his bottles of wine, and glasses of brandy-and-water too!

And then, the unspeakable purity--and freshness of the air!

And then a voice she had never heard before, `Sure then I'm here!

And then, turning to the rose-tree, she went on, `What HAVE you been
doing here?

And then Nova Scotia is right close to the Island.

And then I can imagine that I'm dressed gorgeously.

And then I'd just FEEL a prayer.

And then Katie Maurice would have taken me by the hand and led me out
into a wonderful place, all flowers and sunshine and fairies, and we
would have lived there happy for ever after.

And then, her temper's pretty quick, I guess; but there's one comfort,
a child that has a quick temper, just blaze up and cool down, ain't
never likely to be sly or deceitful.

And then, of course, I had to tell Matthew about the picnic.

And then, when I was leaning over the bridge, it just slipped through
my fingers--so--and went down--down--down, all purplysparkling, and
sank forevermore beneath the Lake of Shining Waters.

And then--thwack!

And then bidding Diana goodbye-e-e--" Here Anne broke down entirely
and wept with increasing bitterness.

And then into the parlor to sit?

And then shall I run down the cellar and get some russets, Matthew?

And then--something--moved beneath them, there was a gasp and a cry--
and somebody said in muffled accents: "Merciful goodness!

And then we couldn't sleep in the spare room after being promised.

And then my number is thirteen and Josie Pye says it's so unlucky.

And then!

And then the girls were around them and Anne was the center of a
laughing, congratulating group.

And then we made the discovery.

And then we saw iron rings as steps leading down a shaft into a
darkness without bottom.

And then we knew.

And then we spoke.

And then we stopped.

And then we saw the fold of a white tunic among the trees, and a gleam
of gold.

| And then and there, as I stood, a dripping ghost, beneath the f
trees before him, the unconscionable fellow, wishing to exhaust upon
me the utmost resources of military hospitality, deliberately
presented arms!

And then Davy brought me here and run out and shut the door; and I
couldn't get out.

And then she got sick.

And then to shut your eyes and fall asleep among roses, with the one
you loved best on earth smiling down at you.

And then there are the twins.

And then I wanted to tell them to somebody and there was nobody but
Mary Joe.

And then of course Thomas' illness has cost a good deal, one way or
another.

"And then that `apology' you made her."

And then, there's the baby's grave, you know.

And then the moon would rise and I would look around me .

And then I met you.

And then he laid down on the bank and stuck his head right into the
spring to show them.

"And then the Neogilos shall go to school,--upo kolpo,--the nurse with
him, and all will be right again," said my father, with a look of sly,
mysterious humor which was peculiar to him.

And then waxing enthusiastic, and warming more and more into German
gutturals and pronunciation, the good Doctor would lift up his hands,
with two great rings on his thumbs, and exclaim: "Und Du!

And then she added, "Your father and he were not such good friends as
they ought to have been, and the Captain has been abroad.

And then Fanny, Miss Fanny, is so young!

And then it vanished at her first glance, as a ghost from the dawn.

And then the uses of life transform us into strange things with other
names: the tree is a tree no more, it is a gate or a ship; the youth
is a youth no more, but a one-legged soldier, a hollow-eyed statesman,
a scholar spectacled and slippered!

And then this Roland, too,--who would go and dine in a cookshop, and
receive change for a shilling, and shun the ruinous luxury of a hack
cabriolet,--could be positively extravagant in his liberalities to
those around him.

And then my father would wisely and kindly, but wondrous slowly, erase
three fourths of one's pet verses, and intercalate others that one saw
were exquisite, but could not exactly see why.

And then one asked why; and my father shook his head in despair, and
said, "But you ought to feel why!

And then I have asked myself what prospect I can hold out at home to
induce you to be contented here, and I see none; and therefore I
should say to you, 'Go thy ways, and God shield thee,'--but,
Pisistratus, your mother!

And then you, sir, she loves you so entirely that--" "No," interrupted
my father; "you can advance no arguments like these to touch a
mother's heart.

And then my mother came again and softened his heart, and for the
first time in his life let into its cold crotchets the warm light of
human gratitude.

And then she would order fresh horses and go on, though Mrs. Bates
(the housekeeper, you know, sir) was very angry with Mrs. Mole, who
encouraged Miss; and--" "Good heavens!

And then--and then--God saw that I was very proud, and I was punished.

And then I thought, "What are my young griefs to his?

And then there came for the first, and, I now rejoice to think, for
the only time, a bitter, ungrateful accusation against the cruelty of
fortune and the disparities of life.

And then, vainly grasping at every argument his blunt sense.

And then boldly he resolved upon what he regarded as the masterscheme
of life; namely, to obtain a small pecuniary independence and to
emancipate himself formally and entirely from his father's control.

And then Roland said to himself, "I have spared and saved for this
son: what care I for aught else than enough to live without debt,
creep into a corner, and await the grave?

And then he spoke bitterly of his father's dislike to him, and his own
resolution to prove the injustice of that dislike by the position he
would himself establish in the world.

And then, hurrying on, Trevanion spoke flatteringly of my pretensions,
in right of birth and capabilities, to honorable employment, and
placed before me a picture of public life, its prizes and
distinctions, which for the moment, at least, made my heart beat loud
and my breath come quick.

And then she was about to put her hand in his, but I drew her back.

And then the Durham bulls and the Yorkshire horses which Mr. Trevanion
sent you and me out as presents, were so tempting, I thought we might
fairly add one speculation to another; and since one of us must
superintend the bucolics, and two of us were required for the
pastorals, I think Vivian was the best of us three to entrust with the
first,--and certainly it has succeeded as yet.

And then another slash of the whip, when all the time we are doing our
very best to get along, uncomplaining and obedient, though often
sorely harassed and down-hearted.

And then follows the description of the dragon: In the sea was the
Serpent cre[ated].

And then I laid a plan and devoted my life.

And then the kings--the son of Jesse, a hero in war, and a singer of
songs eternal as that of the sea; and his son, who, passing all other
kings in riches and wisdom, and while making the Desert habitable, and
in its waste places planting cities, forgot not Jerusalem which the
Lord had chosen for his seat on earth.

And then the taunt of Messala in the garden of Herod-- "All you
conquer in the six days, you lose on the seventh.

And then, see you, we will taste the sweetness of vengeance.

And then, as everybody knows, given youth and such companionship,
there is no situation in which the fancy takes such complete control
as upon tranquil waters under a calm night sky, warm with summer.

And then--then-- Ah, Esther, if I could buy them, I do not know that I
would.

And then--ah, yes!

And then the third ball and third dolphin.

And then the third question, What of him who foretold the ruin which
has so certainly befallen?

"And then, mother?"

And then, by a river-bank, something moved; and she stopped her
knitting for wonder.

And then, while he was speaking, Amrah turned away, and walked
noiselessly to the door, and went out; and none of the company saw her
go.

And then, taking off his eye-glasses and folding them in a red case,
and leaning back in his arm-chair, turning the case about in his two
hands, he gave my godmother a nod.

And then sobbed out, "With all my heart I do!

And then," he added, whispering and grinning, "if that ever was to
happen--which it won't--the birds that have never been caged would
kill 'em.

And then he showed me, proved by elaborate calculations in his pocket-
book, that supposing he had contracted, say, two hundred pounds of
debt in six months out of the army; and that he contracted no debt at
all within a corresponding period in the army--as to which he had
quite made up his mind; this step must involve a saving of four
hundred pounds in a year, or two thousand pounds in five years, which
was a considerable sum.

And then he spoke so ingenuously and sincerely of the sacrifice he
made in withdrawing himself for a time from Ada, and of the
earnestness with which he aspired--as in thought he always did, I know
full well--to repay her love, and to ensure her happiness, and to
conquer what was amiss in himself, and to acquire the very soul of
decision, that he made my heart ache keenly, sorely.

And then Caddy Jellyby came down, and Caddy brought such a packet of
domestic news that it gave us abundant occupation.

And then Prince took her arm in his and turned with great emotion and
respect to his father, whose deportment at that moment was
overwhelming.

And then I found out how it was, and I was drawn to stay there.

And then I said my prayers and thought a little more.

And then forgive her if you can, and cry to heaven to forgive her,
which it never can!

And then I must speak out before every guest and servant, every man
and woman, in it.

And then would sit amiably smiling and taking no notice of the reply
or would sweetly glide off into a calculation of the number of letters
she had lately received and answered or of the coffee-bearing power of
Borrioboola-Gha.

And then such a number of circumstances have happened bad for him, and
such a number of people will be brought forward to speak against him,
and Bucket is so deep.

"And then I said Bleak House was thinning fast; and so it was, my
dear."

And then, in all my ardor sharing, The silent form expression found;
Returned my kiss of youthful daring, And understood my heart's quick
sound.

And then he tried to win her domestics to his side.

And then they laid him upon his shield, and bare him so on horseback
between two knights, and brought him unto the castle and laid him in a
chamber, and at night they sent him his supper.

And then they couched their spears, and came together with a great
dash, and there were overthrown at the first encounter twelve of King
Bagdemagus's party and six of the king of North Wales's party, and
King Bagdemagus's party had the worse.

And then the knights of the king of North Wales would just no more;
and so the gree was given to King Bagdemagus.

And then they hurtled together like two wild bulls, rashing and
lashing with their swords and shields, so that sometimes they fell, as
it were, headlong.

And then he espied that he had taken his armor and his horse.

And then he perceived how a falcon came flying over his head, toward a
high elm; and she had long lunys [Footnote: LUNYS, the string with
which the falcon is held.

And then he came lower, and watched how his own horse stood; and
suddenly he leapt on the further side of his horse from the knight.

And then they both went to the stone, and sat them down upon it and
took off their helms and each kissed the other a hundred times.

And then anon they rode toward Camelot, and on the way they met with
Sir Gawain and Sir Gaheris, that had made promise to Arthur never to
come again to the court till they had brought Sir Tristram with them.

And then King Arthur made Sir Tristram knight of the Table Round with
great nobley and feasting as can be thought.

And then the white knight vanished away.

And then he told that good man all his life, and how he had loved a
queen unmeasurably many years.

And then Sir Launcelot promised the hermit, by his faith, that he
would no more come in her company.

And then he made the sign of the cross on his forehead.

And then Sir Perceval proffered her love, and prayed her that she
would be his.

And then he made such sorrow that he fell to the ground in a swoon,
and lay there long.

And then he said to the man, "Canst thou tell me the way to some
chapel, where I may bury this body?

And then he knew it was Sir Perceval de Galis, and each made of other
right great joy.

And then he kneeled down before the table, and made his prayers, and
suddenly his soul departed, and a great multitude of angels bare his
soul up to heaven, so as the two fellows could well behold it.

And then he fell down and swooned, and long he lay there as he had
been dead.

And then they leapt from their horses, and drew their swords, and gave
many sad strokes, so that the blood burst out in many places.

And then was noble Sir Gawain found, in a great boat, lying more than
half dead.

And then the noble knight's heart burst.

And then Sir Bedivere hid Excalibar under a tree.

And then they rowed from the land, and Sir Bedivere beheld them go
from him.

And then was the game of Badger in the Bag first played.

And then he began to prepare some ground, and he sowed a croft, and a
second, and a third.

And then she had a head so daintily shaped, small and spirited, that
it was a joy to look at her.

And then, who knows but you may starve to death.

And then and there the conviction stole upon Inga that her child did
not love her.

And then fall they to daunce about it, like as the heathen people did
at the dedication of the Idols, whereof this is a perfect pattern, or
rather the thing itself.

And then, not by the clang of trumpets, but by praying, singing
hallelujah, and by the cries of the army to God, the enemies were
routed, and driven even to the sea.

And then again, there is the 'friends of the C.C.H.

"And then?"

"And then you will say nothing to him at all until I have made up my
mind about the matter."

And then suddenly, in the very dead of the night, there came a sound
to my ears, clear, resonant, and unmistakable.

And then I gave a cry of exultation, for a tiny pin-point of yellow
light had suddenly transfixed the dark veil, and glowed steadily in
the centre of the black square framed by the window.

And then again, sir, we were both of us very fond of Sir Charles, as
we well might be considering all that he has done for us.

And then I thought of that other one--the face in the cab, the figure
against the moon.

And then at last I heard him.

"And then after you had sent the letter he dissuaded you from keeping
the appointment?"

And then you heard nothing until you read the reports of the death in
the paper?

And then again the more dissolute Italian youths of Milan frequented
the Stanhope villa and surrounded her couch, not greatly to her
father's satisfaction.

And then the guests came in shoals; Mr and Mrs Quiverful and their
three grown daughters.

And then Mr Slope descended with the learned Miss Trefoil on his arm.

And then, above all, he remembered the pleasant gleam of inward
satisfaction which always spread itself over the old bishop's face,
whenever his friend entered his room.

And then by degrees Mr Slope had introduced the subject of the pretty
school which he had hoped before long to see attached to the hospital.

And then he spoke about the Sunday school; and to tell the truth I
agreed with him; and I thought you would have done so too.

And then certainly he was startled.

And then, how grievous a thing it is to have the pleasure of your
novel destroyed by the ill-considered triumph of a previous reader.

And then it must be remembered that such a marriage as that which the
archdeacon contemplated with disgust, which we who know Mr Slope so
well would regard with equal disgust, did not appear so monstrous to
Mr Harding, because in his charity he did not hate the chaplain as the
archdeacon did, and as we do.

And then Miss Thorne was great about teeth.

And then they took a stroll out among the trim parterres, and Mr
Arabin explained to Mrs Bold the difference between a naiad and a
dryad, and dilated on vases and the shapes of urns.

And then he had no proof of any promise; he could not force the bishop
to appoint him.

And then to talk of your honour being questioned because you wish to
provide for fourteen children.

And then Mrs Quiverful told her tale.

And then she is rich too.

And then a thought struck her that Mr Arabin might perchance hear of
her 'disgraceful' correspondence with Mr Slope, and she turned crimson
with pure vexation.

And then, when he came to the 'darling boy,' and the 'silken tresses,'
he slowly closed and folded the letter in despair.

And then there was a pause, for the archdeacon was not quite ready to
explain the ground of his suspicion.

And then he strove to recall his mind and to think of other affairs,
his parish, his college, his creed--but his thoughts would revert to
Mrs Bold and the Flemish chieftain: When we think upon it How little
flattering is woman's love, Given commonly to whosoe'er is nearest And
propped with most advantage.

And then he walked along beside her, with his hands clasped behind his
back, looking down on the grass beneath his feet, and utterly at a
loss to express his meaning.

And then Mr Slope began to meditate, as others also had done, as to
who might possibly be the new dean; and it occurred to him, as it had
also occurred to others, that it might be possible that he should be
the new dean himself.

And then the question as to the twelve hundred, or fifteen hundred, or
two thousand, ran in his mind, as it had run through those of the
other clergymen in the cathedral library.

And then the hyena laughed loud.

And then the preferment had in a sort of way been offered to Mr
Harding, and had in a sort of way been refused by him.

And then another difficulty of huge dimensions arose, a difficulty
which Mr Plomacy had indeed foreseen, and for which he was in some
sort provided.

And then the pleasure of drinking wine with Mrs Jones and Miss Smith;
with all the Joneses and all the Smiths!

And then the Honourable George returned thanks.

And then a more tenderly pious glance ever beamed from the lover's
eyes.

And then Mr Slope's face, tinted with a deeper dye than usual by the
wine he had drunk, simpering and puckering itself with pseudo piety
and tender grimaces, seemed specially to call for such punishment.

And then he began to feel a righteous disgust at the wickedness of the
doings around him.

'And then--he took hold of me.

And then--' 'Then I jumped away from him, and gave him a slap on the
face; and ran away along the path, till I saw you.

And then Mr Arabin, finding it impossible to say anything further,
stood silent till Charlotte had completed her plans, and Mrs Bold
stood equally silent, intently occupied as it appeared in the
arrangement of her rings.

And then, should he be successful, what would be the reward?

And then the pair sitting down lovingly together, talked over all
their difficulties, as they so often did, and all their hopes, as they
so seldom were able to do.

And then the signora; what would he not have given to be able to hate
her also?

And then they went to the affair of the hospital.

And then she added, getting up and whispering into his ear.

And then her eye, brilliant and bright, now mirthful, now melancholy,
and invincible in either way!

And then came Mr Slope.

And then the child was brought in.

And then the great discomfiture of that arch enemy of all that was
respectable in Barchester, of that new low church clerical parvenu
that had fallen amongst them, that alone would be worth more, almost
than the situation itself.

And then they had lunch, and then Mr Arabin went out on parish duty;
and Eleanor and Miss Thorne were left to take a walk together.

And then she smiled with joy as she thought of all the comforts that
she could give him; not that he cared for comforts, but that it would
be so delicious for her to give.

And then she thought of the signora.

And then, winding his arm round her waist, he stood there gazing at
the fire, and she with her head leaning in his shoulder, stood by him,
well satisfied with her position.

And then slowly, gradually, and craftily, Mr Harding propounded his
own new scheme.

And then when everything is done, the kindest-hearted critic of them
all invariably twit us with the incompetency and lameness of our
conclusion.

And then I began to find out that life wasn't all happiness just
because you had money.

And then to think, with all this, that we are to go to Snow Lodge!

And then he thought to slay her, but he forbore, because of his great
love for her.

And then return to me; and this, sir, will be the second lesson in
this gay science.

And then we are obliged to recollect ourselves, saying, "Where was I?

And then, suddenly, without warning, uttering a cry that was
inarticulate and more like the cry of an animal, John Thornton sprang
upon the man who wielded the club.

And then, in his home, afar o'er the ocean, Or by the turf fire, upon
Erin's old sod, Each Irishman, kneeling in humble devotion, Would love
all his brothers, while praying to God.

And then, when your hands and your hearts are united, When you kneel
at one shrine, when you bow to one law.

And then, with ready boat at hand, The hunter got his game; For to its
struggling, frightened mark, The well-aim'd bullet came.

And then, transfix'd unto the floor, I stood, in terror pinion'd
there, With drops of sweat upon my brow, And eyes with fix'd and rigid
stare.

And then I thought 'tis thus with us-- We mortals, who, with darken'd
sight See things, and fearful sounds do hear, Which cause our narrow
senses fright.

And then I laid my pen aside, With sad, despairing mind, And, fill'd
with self-contemptuous scorn, I thought of human kind.

And then thy lofty mind, 'neath passion's sway, Left its high throne,
and wander'd far astray.

And then let any man explain to me, if he can, how it happened that
Scrooge, having his key in the lock of the door, saw in the knocker,
without its undergoing any intermediate process of change--not a
knocker, but Marley's face.

`And then,' cried one of the girls, `Peter will be keeping company
with some one, and setting up for himself.

And then shall we be lordes all our life Of all the world, as Noe and
his wife.

-- And then, say'st thou, we will our vices shew.

And then would he upon his Bible seek That ilke* proverb of
Ecclesiast, *same Where he commandeth, and forbiddeth fast, Man shall
not suffer his wife go roll about.

And then shall all this gold departed* be, *divided My deare friend,
betwixte thee and me: Then may we both our lustes* all fulfil,
*pleasures And play at dice right at our owen will.

And then Dame Prudence, without delay or tarrying, sent anon her
messengers for their kin and for their old friends, which were true
and wise; and told them by order, in the presence of Meliboeus, all
this matter, as it is above expressed and declared; and prayed them
that they would give their advice and counsel what were best to do in
this need.

And then came in the goldfinch fresh and gay, And said this psalm with
heartly glad intent, "Domini est terra;" <48> this Latin intent,*
*means The God of Love hath earth in governance: And then the wren
began to skip and dance.

And then I thought, anon* it was day, *whenever I would go somewhere
to assay If that I might a nightingale hear; For yet had I none heard
of all that year, And it was then the thirde night of May.

And then came the nightingale to me, And said, "Friend, forsooth I
thank thee That thou hast lik'd me to rescow;* *rescue And one avow to
Love make I now, That all this May I will thy singer be.

And then came the sixth company, And gunnen* fast on Fame to cry;
*began Right verily in this mannere They saide; "Mercy, Lady dear!

And then he told him this and that, And swore thereto, that it was
sooth; "Thus hath he said," and "Thus he do'th," And "Thus shall 't
be," and "Thus heard I say "That shall be found, that dare I lay;"*
*wager That all the folk that is alive Have not the cunning to
descrive* *describe The thinges that I hearde there, What aloud, and
what in th'ear.

And then, if glory come by chance your way, To pay no tribute unto
Caesar, none, But keep the merit all your own!

And then," went on Woloda, smiling tenderly, "kiss her fingers and
eyes and lips and nose and feet--kiss all of her.

And then the dear critters say the bells make such a din there's no
hearin one's self speak; so they put their pretty little mugs close up
to your face, and talk, talk, talk, till one can't help lookin right
at them instead of the horse, and then whap you both go capsized into,
a snow drift together, skins, cushions and all.

And then to see the little critter shake herself when she gets up,
like a duck landin from a pond, a chatterin away all the time like a
Canary bird, and you a haw-hawin with pleasure, is fun alive, you may
depend.

And then look at that are pauper, dragged away in that ox-cart from
his wife for ever, like a feller to States' Prison, and you see
Lazarus.

And then, said he, a lookin up to me and callin out at the tip eend of
his voice, Mr. Hogreave Slick, says he, here's a job out here for you.

And then I say to myself, says I, oh yes, but them offers came too
late.

And then to leave one's folks, and naTIVE place where one was raised,
halter broke, and trained to go in gear, and exchange all the comforts
of the old States, for them are new ones, dont seem to go down well at
all.

And then, in return for these, they swallow "slices of great, fine
mullets, and bird's-flesh of thrushes.

And then I retired from the contest defeated by vulgar fellows, though
I did not deserve it.

And then, when you were for choosing as your general the Paphlagonian
tanner, hateful to the gods, we contracted our brows and were enraged;
and thunder burst through the lightning; and the Moon forsook her
usual paths; and the Sun immediately drew in his wick to himself, and
declared he would not give you light, if Cleon should be your general.

And then, when you ought to be sacrificing, you are inflicting
tortures and litigating.

And then if you obey your father, go wrong if you like.

And then she went off and left him; for he was not lustful, nor an
agreeable bedfellow to spend the night with.

And then we will protect the fruits, and the vines, so that neither
drought afflict them, nor excessive wet weather.

And then I bade him at least take a myrtle-wreath and recite to me
some portion of Aeschylus; and then he immediately said, "Shall I
consider Aeschylus the first among the poets, full of empty sound,
unpolished, bombastic, using rugged words?

And then, after that, as was natural, we hurled word upon word.

And then he told his sister that every little fellow whose name he had
written was just as good as gold.

And then began the search.

And then Carlo said:-- "One reason why I am gaunt and thin is because
I am not a little up-start of a pug,--of no earthly use under Heaven,
and nothing to do but waddle around and accumulate fat.

And then it authorizes "free liberty and license, in case they
conceive it necessary, to send either ships of war, men, or
ammunition, into any of their plantations, forts, factories, or places
of trade," "for the security and defence of the same.

And then a voice, at once gruff and harsh, was heard vociferating, "My
money!

And then began a life of dreary monotony.

And then--look out for squalls!

And then--Remorse!

And then we can RALPH Return, for none BOAT.

And then each ghost with his ladye-toast to their churchyard beds
takes flight, With a kiss, perhaps, on her lantern chaps, and a grisly
grim "good-night"; Till the welcome knell of the midnight bell rings
forth its jolliest tune, And ushers in our next high holiday--the dead
of the night's high-noon!

And then--a real magician!

And then, if you plan it, he Changes organity, With an urbanity, Full
of Satanity, Vexes humanity With an inanity Fatal to vanity-- Driving
your foes to the verge of insanity!

And then I took it easy.

And then she stopped in her work, and looked at me, with her needle
drawn out to its thread's length.

And then,' said Mr. Micawber, who was present, 'I have no doubt I
shall, please Heaven, begin to be beforehand with the world, and to
live in a perfectly new manner, if - in short, if anything turns up.

And then, as if this was not enough, and she had not stood
sufficiently in the light of this child's sister, Betsey Trotwood,'
said my aunt, 'she marries a second time - goes and marries a Murderer
- or a man with a name like it - and stands in THIS child's light!

And then there's that woman with the Pagan name,' said my aunt, 'that
Peggotty, she goes and gets married next.

And then, and not till then, I said to Annie, "Annie, Doctor Strong
will not only be your husband, but he will represent your late father:
he will represent the head of our family, he will represent the wisdom
and station, and I may say the means, of our family; and will be, in
short, a Boon to it.

And then it will go in, you know - and then -' said Mr. Dick, after
checking himself, and pausing a long time, 'there'll be a pretty
kettle of fish!

And then it made me twenty times more wretched, to know how
unselfishly mindful she was of me, and how selfishly mindful I was of
myself.

And then she would give it up as a bad job, and put the account-book
away, after pretending to crush the lion with it.

"And then made you swear never to utter the name of Noirtier?"

And then, it must be confessed, Fernand had never been hated -- he was
only not precisely loved.

"`And then do you take this poniard,' said the young herdsman; `you
will not find one better carved between Albano and Civita-Castellana."

"And then?"

"And then, my good fellow, use your daggers in any way you please, and
I further promise you to be there as a spectator of your prowess."

-- `And then there are robbers,' said La Carconte.

And then it was that, won by his mild charity, seeing that he was
acquainted with all the habits and customs of my own country, and
considering also that pardon for the only crime of which I was really
guilty might come with a double power from lips so benevolent and
kind, I besought him to receive my confession, under the seal of which
I recounted the Auteuil affair in all its details, as well as every
other transaction of my life.

"And then it was, I presume," said Monte Cristo "that you came to me
as the bearer of a letter from the Abbe Busoni?"

And then, again, I am not as brave and courageous as was my poor
brother.

And then," said Madame de Villefort, endeavoring by a struggle, and
with effort, to get away from her thoughts, "however skilfully it is
prepared, crime is always crime, and if it avoid human scrutiny, it
does not escape the eye of God.

"And then?"

And then," said Monte Cristo, "this is not all.

And then, you know," he said, "an idea, a supposition, is sufficient.

"And then he was called" -- "Fernand."

And then, falling upon the chair nearest the door, she burst into a
paroxysm of sobs.

And then I also wish to see a notary, that I may be assured that all
our property returns to Valentine.

And then he walked rapidly to and fro, and pressed his burning
forehead against the fence.

And then, you ungrateful being, you are not pleased to see an old
friend?

"And then," said Eugenie, while turning over the leaves of Madame de
Villefort's album, "add that you have taken a great fancy to the young
man."

And then the baroness remembered that she had felt no pity for poor
Mercedes, who had been afflicted with as severe a blow through her
husband and son.

And then her thoughts, cleaving through space like a bird in the air,
rested on Cavalcanti.

And then, shut out from friendship, having but one affection, which
could not be mixed up with her ordinary pursuits, she thought of
herself -- of no one but herself.

And then so short a time had elapsed since the death of poor
Valentine, and the gloom which overshadowed the house was so recent,
that no one wondered to see the father so absorbed in his professional
duties, which were the only means he had of dissipating his grief.

And then he moved farther on, and began again to dig.

And then he again plunged into a train of thought, the character of
which was better revealed by a sad smile, than it would have been by
tears.

And then began a contest that lasted until daybreak.

And then see all the brave men that have enlisted in the service of
the good cause.

And then, too, there is a cabin taken for me on board the SCOTIA.

"And then I should have one advantage, which is by no means
inconsiderable--I should find fellow-countrymen at Senegal, and that
is not far away from those islands."

"And then, my dear Paganel, you can gain the gold medal anyway."

And then, turning toward the geographer, he added: "You have traveled
in these parts before, sir?

"And then?"

"And then."

And then came a sandy tract, without any transition, but with the
abruptness of change so characteristic of Australian scenery.

And then the scoundrels left the forest.

And then both listened.

And then, failing the BRITANNIA, the DUNCAN certainly had fallen into
the hands of the convicts.

And then he resumed his mental retrospect of the navigators who made
known to us these two great islands of the Southern Sea.

And then pushing his prisoners aside, he laid his hand on the shoulder
of Lady Helena, who turned pale at his touch.

And then they all perceived the inexplicable change that had taken
place in the movements of the Maories.

And then the present emergency came on for serious discussion.

And then they waited for the night.

And then all clustered round Paganel eager to hear his project.

And then to be driven from the door, when I only came to ask how old
master was--!

And then the old man clasped his hands above her head, and said, in a
few broken words, that from that time forth they would wander up and
down together, and never part more until Death took one or other of
the twain.

And then they went on arm-in-arm, very lovingly together.

And then he laid him softly down once more, and asked if the little
girl were there, for he could not see her.

And then the dream grew dim, and faded.

And then she stopped, to fancy how the noise would sound inside, and
how gently it would seem to die away upon the ear.

And then he said, did the jury know Bevis Marks?

And thenceforth, every day, and all day long, he waited at her grave,
for her.

And then there was an abundance of fire-wood at Wolf Creek; indeed,
here and on Hackberry Creek--where I intended to make my next camp--
was the only timber north of the Canadian River; and to select the
halting places near a plentiful supply of wood was almost
indispensable, for as the men were provided with only shelter-tents,
good fires were needed in order to keep warm.

And then he asked himself whether it would not be the best of plans to
drive off booty from the country of the Medes?

And then you gave a little laugh and ran through your list point by
point:-- 'And pray what will be the use of tactics to an army without
supplies, without health, without discipline, without knowledge of
those arts and inventions that are of use in war?

And then, as the hour was come, they broke up the meeting and took
their rest.

And then, after a glance at matters there and an inquiry if aught were
needed, he rode back to his own detachment.

"And then," Cyrus continued, "once inside the walls, he could put the
place into our hands?"

And then Cyaxares answered: "Listen, Cyrus; I have been reputed royal
and of royal lineage as far back as the memory of man can go; my
father was a king and a king I myself was thought to be; and now I see
myself riding here, meanly and miserably attended, while you come
before me in splendour and magnificence, followed by the retinue that
once was mine and all your other forces.

And then Pantheia spoke of Cyrus, his nobleness, his honour, and the
compassion he had shown her, and Abradatas cried: "Tell me, tell me,
how can I repay him all I owe him in your name and mine!

And then you, Araspas, must hold the right wing in the position it has
now, and the rest of you who command a thousand men must do the same
with your divisions: it is no time to be changing horses when the race
is being run; and you will send word to the brigadiers and captains
under you to draw up the phalanx with each company two deep.

And then, what has often been shown elsewhere was shown here, namely,
that of all strong formations the strongest is a band of friends.

And then came the terrible news that the whole world was gathering in
arms against us; I could not deny that these were important matters,
but still I felt certain, if all went well, a time would come at last
when you need not grudge me your company, and we should be together to
my heart's content, you and I.

And then the banquet came to an end: the guests rose, and Cyrus stood
up with them and conducted them to the door.

And then I will give you further advice as to what to do.

And then his life was, you might say, crossed.

And then when it came to the time for me to leave Galway and come up
to the convent he was much worse and I wouldn't be let see him so I
wrote him a letter saying I was going up to Dublin and would be back
in the summer, and hoping he would be better then.

And then the fear that when I should attempt to go out I should be
discovered and called to a halt, filled me with anxiety.

And then, though exhausted by the toil of a three hours' wading
through the drifts, he commenced, in the midst of a mountain storm, a
long day's journey upon foot.

And then they would forever be beyond the reach of the clamor of her
voluble tongue.

And then came a day, a wonderful day, which I spent in ecstasy.

And then, as he passed the gates of the In and Out Club, he had a
moment of clear vision and understood everything.

And then, in an evil hour, somebody discovered that what made the
Belpher Oyster so particularly plump and succulent was the fact that
it breakfasted, lunched and dined almost entirely on the local sewage.

And then go back to your porch with a chastened spirit and admit that
you might be a whole lot worse off.

And then, for the first time, her mind condescended to dwell for a
moment on the author of that act, George Bevan, the friend in need,
whom she had met only the day before in the lane.

"And then bury it in the woods," added Albert, wincing as the
consequences of his rash act swept through his small form like some
nauseous tidal wave.

"And then, that is one point I wish to make, you know."

And then he can write back to my address, and I can smuggle the letter
to you?

And then Reggie Byng arrived in his grey racing car, more cheerful
than any of them.

And then?

And then my uncle must go and break his neck hunting, and the baby,
poor little chap, got croup or something .

And then go home and pack, and meet me at Waterloo at six o'clock.

And then the letters of congratulation will begin to pour in.

And then Fate came to her rescue.

And then he added, with what he evidently meant for grim pleasantry--
for he looked round to catch the approving smile of the rest--"And you
may have enough of such matters before you go to sleep.

And then I started, broad awake and in full possession of my senses,
and ran screaming from the place.

And then I saw something which filled my very soul with horror.

And then away for home!

And then, Mina, I felt a sort of duty to tell him that there was some
one.

And then, my dear, before I could say a word he began pouring out a
perfect torrent of love-making, laying his very heart and soul at my
feet.

And then, mirabile dictu, between the piers, leaping from wave to wave
as it rushed at headlong speed, swept the strange schooner before the
blast, with all sail set, and gained the safety of the harbour.

And then I seemed sinking into deep green water, and there was a
singing in my ears, as I have heard there is to drowning men, and then
everything seemed passing away from me.

And then we may begin.

And then long spells of oblivion, and the rising back to life as a
diver coming up through a great press of water.

And then insensibly there came the strange change which I had noticed
in the night.

And then Lucy's breathing became stertorous again, and all at once it
ceased.

And then he cried, till he laughed again, and laughed and cried
together, just as a woman does.

And then, please God, all this sorrow and anxiety may lead to a good
end.

And then too, you will tell me of husband Jonathan's trouble so far as
you can, but not yet.

And then when I see you, perhaps, you will be very kind and tell me
what you think.

And then .

"And then?"

And then we spend the night, you and I, in the churchyard where Lucy
lies.

And then you will at least know the limit of my purpose.

And then, to follow your Lordship's wishes I shall hold myself at your
disposal to render an account to you, when and where you will.

And then as we looked the white figure moved forwards again.

And then the writhing and quivering of the body became less, and the
teeth seemed to champ, and the face to quiver.

And then there was silence over everything, silence so profound that
it startled me, and I got up and looked out of the window.

And then He moved the mist to the right and left, and I could see that
there were thousands of rats with their eyes blazing red, like His
only smaller.

And then a red cloud, like the colour of blood, seemed to close over
my eyes, and before I knew what I was doing, I found myself opening
the sash and saying to Him, `Come in, Lord and Master!

And then, when he found that this be all right, he try to move them
all alone.

And then she said cheerfully, "I can never thank you all enough.

And then the horses cowered lower and lower, and moaned in terror as
men do in pain.

And then the father died, and the two brothers were left living
together with very little means between them.

And then it was clear that this man had no appreciation of the dignity
of a learned profession.

And then, also, there was not much in his individual manner to
recommend him to the favour of ladies.

And then some few years later, there came a rector, and a rector's
sister; and with the latter Mary studied German and French also.

And then she put her head down to the footstool and kissed Beatrice's
feet.

And then he sat down, amid the loud plaudits of the company, and a
string of blessings which came from the servants behind him.

And then came to her mind those curious questions; what makes a
gentleman?

And then, did she not love him--love him already, without waiting for
any change?

And then he walked slowly by himself, backwards and forwards through
the garden, thinking of what he had done with reference to this girl,
and doubting whether he had done wisely and well.

And then, how had it answered, that plan of his of keeping her all to
himself?

And then, he well knew that she would never put out her hand in token
of love to any one without telling all she knew and all she surmised
as to her own birth.

And then an idea came across her mind that she hated Patience Oriel;
and then, instantly another idea followed--quick as such thoughts are
quick--that she did not hate Patience Oriel at all; that she liked
her, nay, loved her; that Patience Oriel was a sweet girl; and that
she hoped the time would come when she might see her the lady of
Greshamsbury.

And then the tear, which had been no whit controlled, which indeed had
now made itself master of her, came to a head, and, bursting through
the floodgates of the eye, came rolling down, and in its fall, wetted
her hand as it lay on her lap.

And then, he has sold Boxall Hill.

And then, as the matter is made plain to you at so early an age, you
are not of course hampered by any indiscreet tie; by any absurd
engagement.

And then they felt sure that none but Scatcherd would be called upon
to construct the dock or make the railway.

And then, he don't seem to be quite right yet about the legs, so he
hasn't got up; but he's got that Winterbones with him to write for
him, and when Winterbones is there, Scatcherd might as well be up for
any good that bed'll do him.

And then, without further speech, the doctor went his way.

And then, if these two men did die within the prescribed period, if
this clause of Sir Roger's will were brought to bear, it should become
his, Dr Thorne's, duty to see that clause carried out, how would he be
bound to act?

And then other thoughts crowded on his brain.

And then she came over from her seat at the tea-tray and sat down on a
foot-stool close at his knee.

And then, also, Sir Roger was the richest man in the county, and to
county practitioners a new patient with large means is a godsend; how
much greater a godsend when not only acquired, but taken also from
some rival practitioner, need hardly be explained.

And then the doctor thought of her Italian and French readings, of her
music, of her nice books, and sweet lady ways, of her happy
companionship with Patience Oriel, and her dear, bosom friendship with
Beatrice Gresham.

And then, he would never dare; you see, he is dependent on the De
Courcys for his seat.

And then the doctor went to the lady.

And then, too, there would be the greatest difficulty in wording her
request to the doctor; and Lady Arabella was sufficiently conscious of
her own weakness to know that she was not always very good at words.

And then bowing low to her, he left the room and the house, and
sauntered slowly away to his own home.

And then his thoughts recurred to Frank.

And then, as he walked on, he could not divest his mind of the
remembrance of what had passed between him and Sir Roger.

And then, feeling not unnatural anxiety as to the present state of
Miss Dunstable's worldly concerns, he took an opportunity of falling
back on that part of her conversation which Mrs Proudie had exercised
so much tact in avoiding.

And then he gave her his arm and handed her down to dinner.

And then the ladies retired.

And then the fine arts were resorted to, seeing that language fell
short in telling all that was found necessary to be told.

And then the farce commenced.

And then, having thus given vent to his feelings in somewhat high-
flown language, he walked forth and trudged away along the road
towards Courcy.

And then, although he did not care two rushes about Miss Dunstable in
the way of love, he nevertheless experienced a sort of jealousy when
he found that she appeared to be indifferent to him, and that she
corresponded the meanwhile with his cousin George.

And then he sighed again, so that it was piteous to hear him.

And then there were other troubles at Greshamsbury.

And then they did not separate without another slight repast and
another bottle of claret.

And then there was nothing further to be said on the matter.

And then Mary, with a calm brow and steady gait, went in and made the
tea.

And then the squire came to see her, and this was a yet harder trial
than the visit of Beatrice.

And then this affair of Frank and Mary Thorne ceased for a while to be
talked of at Greshamsbury, for that other affair of Mr Moffat and
Augusta monopolized the rural attention.

And then Dr Thorne arrived.

And then again they were called to their patient.

And then Dr Thorne, taking Lady Scatcherd's hand and leading her out
into another chamber, told her the truth.

And then she began rocking herself backwards and forwards on her
chair, with her apron up to her eyes.

And then he was called on to compare, as it were, the prospects of
this unfortunate with those of his own darling; to contrast all that
was murky, foul, and disheartening, with all that was perfect--for to
him she was all but perfect; to liken Louis Scatcherd to the angel who
brightened his own hearthstone.

And then, after a pause, he went on.

And then, perversely enough, she persisted in asking numerous
questions about Louis Scatcherd.

And then these two girls both knew--not her secret; she had no secret
--but the little history of her ill-treatment.

And then the Lady Arabella stalked off, not without full observation
from Mrs Yates Umbleby and her friend Miss Gustring, who lived close
by.

And then nothing was good enough for Mary.

And then I know Louis would be mad if I talked of such a thing.

And then, with an angry look at his mother, he mounted his horse, and
was soon leading the way down the avenue.

And then Lady Arabella stood up before her son as Lady Macbeth might
have stood, had Lady Macbeth lived to have a son of Frank's years.

And then the doctor silently, and almost unconsciously, made such a
comparison between Louis Scatcherd and Frank Gresham as Hamlet made
between the dead and live king.

And then, when she heard how true he was, how he persisted against
father, mother, and sisters, how could it be that that should not be a
merit in her eyes which was so great a fault in theirs?

And then, too, Lady Arabella!

And then he walked about six steps in silence, plucking up courage for
the great attempt.

And then the heaviness of visage again gave way for a moment as his
eye fell upon his son.

And then he again repeated his question, asking for his father's
advice under the present circumstances.

And then he went away.

And then also he went his way from him--went his way also from
Greshamsbury, and was absent for the full period of the allotted
banishment--twelve months, namely, and a day.

And then she sat for the next half hour with her head against his
shoulder; but nothing more was said about it.

And then he had his own individual annoyances, and very aggravating
annoyances they were.

And then, also, the old-fashioned phaeton, of old-fashioned old Dr
Century was seen to rumble up to the big house, and it became known
that Lady Arabella was not very well.

And then, on the following morning, Sir Omicron also went his way.

And then there was a scene between the squire and her ladyship.

And then he thought of Sir Roger and his will, and of Mary and her
lover.

And then of Mary's birth, and of his own theoretical doctrines as to
pure blood.

And then, as I understand, he is absolutely encouraging that girl--'
'Now, Bell, you are quite wrong--' 'Of course I am; I always am quite
wrong.

And then the squire left the room, and Lady Arabella remained alone,
perplexed by many doubts.

And then there was Miss Gushing,--a young thing.

And then Miss Gushing began to bethink herself of whom should be
composed the congregation which it must be presumed that Mr Oriel
wished to see around him.

And then she turned her head to the arm of the sofa, and silently,
without audible sobs, hiding her face, she endeavoured to get rid of
the tears unseen.

And then Beatrice fully enjoyed the delicious talk which she had
promised herself.

And then they parted.

And then, as though a thought had suddenly struck her, she spoke with
more energy.

And then he went on for a moment with his breakfast.

And then the squire's lawyers had to take up the matter; and they did
so greatly to the detriment of poor Mr Yates Umbleby, who was found to
have made a mess of the affairs entrusted to him.

And then, getting up, to avoid the flood he himself had caused, he
nearly fell into the doctor's arms.

And then Sir Louis cannot go without you,'--and Mary pointed
upstairs--'and you may be sure that he will go.

And then, the doctor began a long and very useless lecture.

And then they went into different parts of the room.

And then the three were left alone.

And then, suddenly remembering a portion of their doings, he took Mary
in his arms, and kissed and blessed her; and declared that, in spite
of all this, he was a happy man.

And then he, too, looked into her eyes, and waited composedly, as
though determined to have an answer.

And then there was a long quarrel, between them, and but an
indifferent reconciliation.

And then, dear Augusta, come to us here.

And then Frank, in voluble language, which he hardly, however, had
quite under his command, told his father all that had passed between
him and Mary.

And then the young democrat walked on again in solitude, leaving Mr
Oriel in doubt as to the exact line of argument which he had meant to
inculcate.

And then, down at what's a the man of the place, there was Thorne.

And then Dr Fillgrave went on to Greshamsbury.

And then the doctor used his surgical lore, as he well knew how to use
it.

And then we could be so happy together again.

And then I will speak to Frank,' said Lady Arabella.

And then he knew how good she was.

And then they both sat silent, as though each was waiting to hear
whether the other had anything more to say on that subject.

And then, I should like to have Mary so much if mamma would let her
come.

And then she asked herself whether, in consenting to accept Frank's
hand, she had adequately considered this; and she was forced to
acknowledge that she had not considered it.

And then she did think for one moment of herself.

And then, for a moment, she thought of her uncle.

And then she all but resolved to run down to the baker's wife, and get
back her letter, that she might alter it.

And then, why did he not at least answer it?

And then Dr Fillgrave, thinking that even the present circumstances
required no further condescension, ensconced himself in the carriage.

And then she let the bottle drop from her hand as though it were too
heavy for her.

And then Lady Scatcherd, as she made the exclamation, put both her
hands down to hold her chair, as though she feared the weight of her
surprise would topple her off her seat.

And then Mr Gazebee came down from town, with an intimation that it
behoved the squire himself to go up that he might see certain learned
pundits, and be badgered in his own person at various dingy, dismal
chambers in Lincoln's Inn Fields, the Temple, and Gray's Inn Lane.

And then, her birth.

And then, putting his feet on the opposite seat, he settled himself
comfortably to his rest.

And then he got so mad with drinking that we all thought--' And so Mr
Bideawhile went on for two hours, and Frank found no opportunity of
saying one word about the business which had brought him up to town.

And then, such a quantity of money!

And then Patience Oriel came.

And then a servant in livery would open the big drawing-room door.

And then she slipped through Lady Arabella's arms, and sat down,
meekly down, on a chair.

And then Beatrice was wedded and carried off to the Lakes.

And then Quintilian and Horace must be cautiously interpreted, where
they affirm that satire is wholly Roman, and a sort of verse which was
not touched on by the Grecians.

And then his exile was a favour.

And then kept silence and spoke no more.

And then it has pierced my heart to see her clutch her throat.

And then the other two came at him with their swords bared, and both
deal him great blows, but they receive still heavier blows from him.

And then, for the first time, he felt free to return to the damsel.

And then behold!

And then there was that other trick she played us.

And then he knew why the chest had come.

And then I sent her another, and my poesie was, The deeper the
sweeter, I'll be judg'd by St. Peter.

And then her going in disguise to that conjurer, and this cunning
woman: where the first question is, how soon you shall die?

And then he has his lesser glasses, that he calls his deer and his
ape; and several degrees of them too; and never is well, nor thinks
any entertainment perfect, till these be brought out, and set on the
cupboard.

And then the women, as I have given the bride her instructions, to
break in upon him in the l'enuoy.

And then let virtue follow, if she will.

And then adieu to prudence and virtue, honour and fair fame.

And then, what follows in the same prophet?

And then, how improbable that the Prince should have paid the
comparatively trifling school-fees and left the young man when he went
abroad dependent upon the support of his parents!

And then the miserable instruments!

And then one day Chopin proposed.

And then of what use would be pursuit?

And then I bent over her and whispered, `Awake, fairest, thy lover is
near--he who would give his life but to obtain one look of affection
from thine eyes; my beloved, awake!

And then I thought again of his words--"I WILL BE WITH YOU ON YOUR
WEDDING-NIGHT.

And then, who knows not on how much may venture the man, be he a
private individual or a prince, who has succeeded in enchaining the
admiration of his fellow-creatures!

And then it was "the dry commonplace, the cold, the wooden Francis,"
and all the pretty little epithets which the contrast between us
suggested to your fatherly affection, when he was sitting on your
knee, or playfully patting your cheeks?

And then--woe to the father who by a culpable tenderness bath
frustrated the ordinances of a higher wisdom!

And then, all of a sudden, the signal of deliverance.

And then you will force the dagger into my hand as eagerly as you now
seek to withhold it.

And then take for our reward?

And then was made the murderer of my wife--fool that I was to trust
two erring eyes?

And then only think of the beautiful books that the major has sent us.

And then, to be frank with you--you know that I'm a blunt,
straightforward fellow--you'll not give thank'ye for my advice.

And then to renew to her my vows of love, and chant unceasingly her
broken oaths!

And then it's all up with the whole concern!

And then This Butler, too--he cannot even conceal The passionate
workings of his ill intentions.

And then the impunity of his defiance-- Oh!

And then this viper, this Octavio, Is excellent at stabbing in the
back, But ne'er meets Friedland in the open field.

And then the many posts of the enemy!

And then, at last, to fill the measure up---- CARLOS.

And then I mark the queen.

And then those looks!

And then, this morning, in the king's apartment, The queen was spoken
of mysteriously.

And then young Ulerick, his son, Ha!

And then her cheeks of green and yellow hues, The obvious penalty of
poisonous envy-- Zeus oft complains to me that that same shrew Each
night torments him with her nauseous love, And with her jealous whims,
--enough, I'm sure, Into Ixion's wheel to turn all heaven.

And then he shouted: "Yes!

And then,--and not too soon,--discover we That plans soap-bubbles are
alone.

And then, through the silence, cut a throbbing scream-- the scream of
a woman in direst fear.

And then he fixed the green eyes upon me--the blazing green eyes.

And then?

And then!

And then," he added more calmly, "I have gained land here.

And then, then--alas, that is all over!

And then Mary Lennox was led up a broad staircase and down a long
corridor and up a short flight of steps and through another corridor
and another, until a door opened in a wall and she found herself in a
room with a fire in it and a supper on a table.

And then she took a long breath and looked behind her up the long walk
to see if any one was coming.

And then they began to work harder than ever and more joyfully.

And then--if the doctor wants you to go out in your chair, and if you
can always do what you want to do, perhaps--perhaps we might find some
boy who would push you, and we could go alone and it would always be a
secret garden.

And then she told him about the robin and Ben Weatherstaff, and there
was so much to tell about the robin and it was so easy and safe to
talk about it that she ceased to be afraid.

And then he turned round and stared at me.

And then he lay back on his cushion and was still, as if he were
thinking.

And then we will look at your pictures.

And then she began to laugh too and they both laughed until they could
not stop themselves and they laughed until the room echoed and Mrs.
Medlock opening the door to come in drew back into the corridor and
stood listening amazed.

And then she paused for breath.

And then you and Dickon can bring it here.

And then remembering himself he suddenly touched his hat gardener
fashion and said, "Yes, sir!

And then forgetting his grandeur he fell to and stuffed himself with
buns and drank milk out of the pail in copious draughts in the manner
of any hungry little boy who had been taking unusual exercise and
breathing in moorland air and whose breakfast was more than two hours
behind him.

And then the dream ended.

And then the moment came, the uncontrollable moment when the sounds
forgot to hush themselves.

And then there came again what this had made him say.

And then in a moment, as if even this were almost too grave, he
sounded the note that had least to do with himself.

And then as she again took her time: "I thought your whole point is
just that you're sure.

And then as his own conviction appeared to continue as little to
match: "The ground, I mean, of any nervousness I may ever feel.

And then," she had said, "it isn't of course a question of anything
expensive, gorged with treasure as Maggie is; it isn't a question of
competing or outshining.

And then as if this were perhaps ambiguous or inadequate: "She's not
selfish--God forgive her!--enough.

And then as he was silent: "Not even if he should have to say to me
'The Golden Bowl is broken'?

And then to explain: "That's good, and it's natural--but it isn't
great.

And then she's INTERESTING--which plenty of other people with plenty
of other merits never are a bit.

And then as the girl, with one of her so deeply and oddly, yet so
tenderly, critical looks at him, failed to take up the remark, he
found himself moved, as by a vague anxiety, to add a question.

And then as with her friend's last word in her ear: "'Otherwise'--yes.

And then as she met in her friend's face the absence of any such
remembrance: "He did tell me that he wanted me just BECAUSE I could be
useful about her.

And then as his friend's face, in her extremity, quite again as with
Charlotte, but continued to fly the black flag of general repudiation:
"Well, we really began then, as it seems to me, the work of placing
her where she is.

And then as it had apparently for her companion an effect of
abruptness: "Maggie, I mean, and the child.

And then, further, as if, slightly disconcerted, she had nothing to
meet this and he quickly perceived the effect: "They would have done
the same for one of yours.

And then as he seemed slow to follow: "It all comes back to her.

And then while, for all they seemed to give him, he sounded again her
eyes: "I feel the day like a great gold cup that we must somehow drain
together.

And then as she only gloomed: "The Prince's?

And then, as his wife at first said nothing: "Did she give any sign?

And then both of them together to Maggie.

And then as Maggie herself now wondered, echoing it again: "We can
suggest to her to suggest to him that he shall let me take him off.

And then he had appeared for a little to be making time.

And then as she had waited without result for her companion to say:
"But isn't it true that--after you had this time again, at the
eleventh hour, said YOU wouldn't--they would really much rather not
have gone?

And then, as if baffled by the lucidity of this, Mrs. Assingham for a
little said nothing: "Now do you think I'm modest?

And then as the Princess didn't at first answer: "Do you call such an
allegation as that 'mild'?

And then to that of getting Charlotte a husband at Mr.

And then inveterately, before she could say--he enjoyed so much coming
to this: "What will have squared Lady Castledean?

And then she had felt, somehow, more at her ease than for months and
months before; she didn't know why, but her time at the Museum, oddly,
had done it; it was as if she hadn't come into so many noble and
beautiful associations, nor secured them also for her boy, secured
them even for her father, only to see them turn to vanity and doubt,
turn possibly to something still worse.

And then, at the renewal of this consciousness, it all rolled over
her.

And then as he again fixed her with his hard yearning, which he
couldn't keep down: "The question is so much bigger than that.

And then you're so deep.

And then as Mrs. Assingham opened wide eyes: "I've been in the dark
since we came down, not understanding what he has been doing or
intending--not making out what can have passed between them.

And then again, as if that were but half: "My idea is this, that when
you only love a little you're naturally not jealous--or are only
jealous also a little, so that it doesn't matter.

And then as Maggie might appear to be wondering what, for instance: "I
see the long miles of ocean and the dreadful great country, State
after State--which have never seemed to me so big or so terrible.

And then as she waited: "The use is all before me.

And then, as to be herself ideally right: "I don't see what you would
have done without her.

And then, like him, you must, by a sedulous lecture, and frequent
meditation, break the bone, and suck out the marrow,--that is, my
allegorical sense, or the things I to myself propose to be signified
by these Pythagorical symbols, with assured hope, that in so doing you
will at last attain to be both well-advised and valiant by the reading
of them: for in the perusal of this treatise you shall find another
kind of taste, and a doctrine of a more profound and abstruse
consideration, which will disclose unto you the most glorious
sacraments and dreadful mysteries, as well in what concerneth your
religion, as matters of the public state, and life economical.

And then we find that they are reduced into a Latin style the most
elegant and ornate that whole language is able to afford, without
excepting that of any that ever wrote therein, nay, not of Sallust,
Varro, Cicero, Seneca, Titus Livius, nor Quintilian.

And then Pantagruel, for an eternal memorial, wrote this victorial
ditton, as followeth:-- Here was the prowess made apparent of Four
brave and valiant champions of proof, Who, without any arms but wit,
at once, Like Fabius, or the two Scipions, Burnt in a fire six hundred
and threescore Crablice, strong rogues ne'er vanquished before.

And then again in a mighty bustle he bandied it, slubbered it, hacked
it, whittled it, wayed it, darted it, hurled it, staggered it, reeled
it, swinged it, brangled it, tottered it, lifted it, heaved it,
transformed it, transfigured it, transposed it, transplaced it, reared
it, raised it, hoised it, washed it, dighted it, cleansed it, rinsed
it, nailed it, settled it, fastened it, shackled it, fettered it,
levelled it, blocked it, tugged it, tewed it, carried it, bedashed it,
bewrayed it, parched it, mounted it, broached it, nicked it, notched
it, bespattered it, decked it, adorned it, trimmed it, garnished it,
gauged it, furnished it, bored it, pierced it, trapped it, rumbled it,
slid it down the hill, and precipitated it from the very height of the
Cranie; then from the foot to the top (like another Sisyphus with his
stone) bore it up again, and every way so banged it and belaboured it
that it was ten thousand to one he had not struck the bottom of it
out.

And then we entrust our goods to the lawyers, who never go to law
against one another.

And then you dance but indifferently, and would be out of countenance
at the first entry.

And then by a relation from them it was that Caesar learned the
admirable nature and virtue of this wood, which of itself produceth
neither fire, flame, nor coal, and would, therefore, in regard of that
rare quality of incombustibility, have been admitted into this rank
and degree of a true Pantagruelional plant; and that so much the
rather, for that Pantagruel directed that all the gates, doors,
angiports, windows, gutters, fretticed and embowed ceilings, cans,
(cants?

And then, continued Homenas, they were miraculously transmitted to us
here from the very heaven of heavens; in the same manner as the river
Nile is called Diipetes by Homer, the father of all philosophy--the
holy decretals always excepted.

And then I am quite sure that he has managed to get a shot into
himself somewhere or other, for we hear nothing of him.

And then, after a moment, he grumbled in his beard: "After all I am
sorry for the poor fellow; he is so brave, and shoots so well!

And then I had other things on my mind which I will tell you.

And then, you had killed my father, who was a soldier of the first
Emperor.

And then, did he have the right to do so?

And then he would take her hand, murmuring those words which the woman
divines, without seeming to hear them.

And then he said: "Number One, called Pamela, is adjudged to the
commandant.

And then the three players continued their game, and held out their
hands without looking up, when the others wished them "Good-night,"
and then they both went home to dinner.

And then he saw "the mother" as she was when young, wearing well-worn
dresses, which he remembered for such a long time that they seemed
inseparable from her; he recollected her movements, the different
tones of her voice, her habits, her predilections, her fits of anger,
the wrinkles on her face, the movements of her thin fingers, and all
her well-known attitudes, which she would never have again, and
clutching hold of the doctor, he began to moan and weep.

And then, putting her knitting on the counter, she went upstairs to
the first floor, where she met two other neighbors, who had just come,
and who were discussing the event with Madame Caravan, who was giving
them the details, and they all went together to the death chamber.

And then he did not stir any more, but read on, read on with his eye
and his mind; all his wasting body seemed to read, all his soul
plunged, lost, disappeared, in this book, up to the hour when the cool
air made him cough a little.

And then a murder was such a rare thing in the country, and, above
all, the murder of a child, that he could not believe his eyes.

And then, as men become better than He, He has made beasts, in order
to see men hunt them, kill them and eat them.

And then, moreover, I immediately remembered a personal instance.

And then--the respectable women--that is to say our wives--are--are
not--in fact do not understand their profession of wife.

"And then Cornu gave me a hundred sous, not Brument, Cornu; it was
Cornu gave them to me."

"And then they took me, Brument by the head, and Cornu by the feet, as
one might take, for instance, a sheet that has been washed."

"And then Brument pushed down my head as if to drown me, so that the
water ran into my nose, so that I could already see Paradise."

And then he must have been frightened.

And then I saw that she was as thin as a rail.

And then I shall see whether you have any imagination.

And then she thought of her child, who was the cause of her
misfortunes, but who was also the cause of all her happiness on earth,
and whom she went to see twice a year, though she came back more
unhappy each time.

And then--and then--all passes.

And then two gentlemen appeared in evening dress, and wearing the
ribbon of an order.

And then---and then!

And then, moreover, one ought not.

And then I like cemeteries because they are immense cities filled to
overflowing with inhabitants.

And then you would grow disgusted with me and I was sent into the
country, the family chateau, among fields and meadows.

And then that abominable and mysterious thing occurred which I was a
long time in understanding (but I grew sharp by dint of watching your
thoughts and actions): You attached yourself to your children with all
the security which they gave you while I bore them.

And then, if you admitted only Freethinkers among you, I could
understand it, but you admit anybody.

And then, taking my arm, he would whisper to me: "See here, that
fellow will play me a trick some day or other, I feel sure of it.

And then, of course, she was very particular.

And then also I felt something in the air, something I could not
express, one of those mysterious premonitions that warn one of another
person's secret intentions in regard to yourself, whether they be good
or evil.

And then the hotel dinners--those dreary table d'hote dinners in the
midst of all sorts of extraordinary people, or else those terrible
solitary dinners at a small table in a restaurant, feebly lighted by a
wretched composite candle under a shade.

And then, suddenly, you are aware that you are really alone in the
world, always and everywhere, and that in places which we know, the
familiar jostlings give us the illusion only of human fraternity.

And then she suddenly asked: "Would you like me to come with you?

And then, good-bye, my life will be finished.

And then, it seems to proclaim to the public that you have the odious
courage, and are even under a legal obligation, to caress that
ridiculous face and that ill- shaped body, and that you will, without
doubt, be shameless enough to make a mother of this by no means
desirable being--which is the very height of the ridiculous.

And then--her discovery--of the penalty she paid!

And then, after a short silence, he continued: "Have you any fowls you
could sell us every week?

And then he had a sudden inspiration: "Look here, I will come and see
you at Fecamp next month.

And then he watched a white pocket-handkerchief, which somebody was
waving, as it disappeared in the distance.

And then, timidly, I took her hand in mine; after that all went on
without a hitch.

"And then?"

"And then--as I was coming to Paris I thought that I would please you
by coming to tell you the good news."

And then we lay down side by side, our eyes turned toward the sky,
while the boat glided slowly through the water.

And then, having been to the mayor's office and to church, she now
lived in the house which her man had bought, while he continued to
tend his flocks, day and night, on the plains.

And then he continued: "Have you any papers?

And then he said to the two gendarmes: "You will conduct this man two
hundred yards from the village and let him continue his journey.

And then, as nothing stirred, he went up to the window and pushed it
wider open with his hand, and the close warm air of the kitchen, full
of the smell of hot soup, meat and cabbage, escaped into the cold
outer air, and with a bound the carpenter was in the house.

And then almost immediately he felt quite merry and light-hearted from
the effects of the alcohol, just as if some great happiness filled his
heart.

And then with increased satisfaction: "Oh, you blackguard!

And then we returned to dinner.

And then my wife began to nag at me.

And then my wife began to talk aloud, as if she were thinking, and you
can see her tricks.

And then they began to kiss and hug again, without putting any more
restraint upon themselves than if we had not been there; and then they
whispered together, and got up and went off among the trees, without
saying a word.

And then, monsieur, business became better, and we were tranquil as to
the future!

And then, to speak the truth, Monsieur Beaurain never said much to me,
but when I looked in the glass, I also understood quite well that I no
longer appealed to any one!

And then she wept a little as if she felt regretful.

And then I will call my daughter, my grown-up daughter.

And then, merely to see him drink was a curiosity.

And then I climb up on the box, open my umbrella and off we go.

And then, there is nothing more amusing than the entresols.

And then she returned to the house with slow steps, only stopping to
cough, for she had remained out too long and she was cold, a little
cold.

And then, even if they adored me, is it possible for two women and one
man to know a secret--such a secret!--and not to tell of it?

"And then he ceased speaking, his eyes filling with tears."

And then she added, looking at me slyly: 'Nor so ugly, either: And
before she could make a movement to avoid me I had implanted a hearty
kiss on her cheek.

And then the scene began again, and after the storm had raged for an
hour, he at last was able to explain himself.

And then, in his turn, he would not have enough caresses to please his
wife from morning to night and from night to morning.

And then I did as assassins do--real ones.

And then she shouted into the shaking old man's ears: "This is a
friend of Simon's, papa.

And then, after a short silence, she went on: 'I was there--by his
side.

And then he added: "A little more rabbit, my dear?

And then he asked me to go with him to the river one evening, so that
we might talk without disturbing any one.

And then I laid him on my bed.

And then such a pain griped me again that I thought I should die.

And then, back in my bed, I felt so sick that I could not get up.

And then I was caught.

And then--who can tell?

And then I said: "What is the matter?

And then I recalled that other woman, the peasant, the "Devil," who
sold her children, her monsters.

And then he went away on the nine o'clock train.

And then he kissed me, madame, kissed me as one does when they love.

And then she exclaimed: "Oh, he is not going to die; tell me that he
is not going to die, I beg of you; tell him that I love him, that I
worship him.

And then, from unseen lips, a cruel and mocking peal of laughter rang
through the desolate place.

And then from the far corner of the great chamber a hollow voice
chanted: "There is no hope, there is no hope; the dead return not, the
dead return not; nor is there any resurrection.

And then the awful laugh broke out from another part of the chamber.

And then from beyond the blank wall beside which I lay I heard the
shuffling of feet, the snarling of grim beasts, the clank of metal
accoutrements, and the heavy breathing of a man.

And then I stooped beside the prostrate form, tore the harness from
it, and bound the fellow's arms and legs securely.

And then a man sprang to his feet in the audience, and raising his
hand on high, cried: "Justice!

And then turning to Zat Arras, I said in a low voice: "Unless you be a
bigger fool than I take you to be, you will grasp the chance I am
offering you ere it is too late.

And then she asked Dejah Thoris who she might be, and when she heard
she fell upon her knees and kissed Dejah Thoris' fettered hands, and
told her that that very morning she had been with John Carter, Prince
of Helium, and Carthoris, her son.

And then I turned up the main corridor in the direction that Carthoris
and the head of the column had passed a half-hour before.

And then I rained cut after cut upon the surprised warriors, while the
reds without took heart at the sound of my voice, and with shouts of
"John Carter!

And then by the mere weight and momentum of my body, I rushed
completely through the two remaining ranks and sprang upon the dais
beside the carved sorapus throne.

And then it was that she went mad.

And then it laughed a weird and terrible laughter that froze the
blood.

And then hoam agin all slack as if he'd been beaten in a race by
somebody.

And then the phantom which had stood there mocking while he felt as
other men--the phantom, now flesh and blood reality, seized and
convulsed his heart, and filled its unforgiving crevices with bitter
ironic venom.

And then we shall come home, and I shall lead Austin's life, with her
to help me.

And then they loose their hands, and the cool curate doth bid the Man
to put a ring on the Woman's fourth finger, counting thumb.

And then write me a full account of all that has been said and done.

And then I shall come on board to receive my bride's congratulations.

"And then my husband will talk all the time to Lady Judith."

"And then I shall see my wife frowning and blushing at Lord
Mountfalcon."

And then, do you know, darling--you won't think me vain?--I think he
is beginning to like me a little.

And then injury spoke.

And then it was discovered how their common observation had fastened
on the boot-lace; and this vagrant article became the key to certain
speculations on her condition and character.

And then, recurring to her interview with Wilfrid, it struck her:
"Suppose that, after all, Money!...

And then Adela knew that the weight of Edward Buxley's remonstrative
wrath had fallen on silent Emilia, to whom she clung fondly.

And then, with a relaxing look upon Cornelia: "Perhaps you might have
fifteen, sixteen, perhaps for the first year; or, say--you see, the
exact acreage is unknown to me.

And then he thought kindly of her, and that a meeting would not be
good for her, and that she ought to go to Italy and follow her
profession.

And then, really, my child, you must adapt yourself to the words.

And then, not seeing any friendly demonstration on his part, she
folded her arms in another knot.

And then the Countess looked at her husband; she sank at his feet.

And then: "How could I guess that you felt in this way?

And then the policemen!

And then the blood thrilled along his veins, as if one more than
mortal had touched him.

And then there were theatres here--huge extravagant places!

And then she looks over at me, and I swear I'm not going to be
defended by a woman.

And then they took to religion for comfort.

And then Robert goes off.

And then she was speechless.

And then the cabman made himself heard: a civil cabman, but without
directions, and uncertain of his dinner and his pay, tolerably hot,
also, from threading a crowd after a deaf gentleman.

"And then perhaps you'll plead my cause, and make me thankful to you
for life, Dahlia?"

And then, with a persuasive sincerity, he assured her that he could
neither study nor live apart from Dahlia.

And then he told an anecdote of Papa.

And then he began praising Papa.

And then there 's the religion!

And then,' said the Hon.

And then, as they were secure in their privacy, Louisa cried aloud for
her father, her beloved father!

And then there was the poor young fellow trudging to his father's
funeral!

And then we're ashamed to show it.

And then Miss Rose said--for she can be in a passion about some
things"-- What do you mean, Ferdinand," was her words, "I insist upon
your speaking out.

And then I have the most dreadful fears that what I have done has
disturbed him in the other world.

And then the poor little man rubbed his hands, unconscious of the
indignant pity for his wretched abilities in the gaze of the Countess;
and he must have been exposed--there was a fear that the ghost of Sir
Abraham would have darkened this day, for Miss Carrington was about to
speak, when Lady Jocelyn cried: 'There's a purl!

And then Harry Jocelyn said: 'I say, have you worked the flags yet?

And then Evan found himself alone with Miss Bonner, and very uneasy.

'And then, Evan, you will never need to go.

And then going to Mama.

And then he muttered 'Extraordinary likeness!

'And then I'm where I was before I met the horrid old brute!

And then she laughed, but without any accompaniment.

And then, seeing her dear bosom heave quickly, he was tempted to fall
on his knees to her with a wild outcry of love.

And then he hurried Franko along to the bridge, where, behold, the
Countess alighted with the gentleman, and walked beside him into the
gardens.

And then, talking on, long low sighs lifted her bosom at intervals.

And then again, the small beginnings, which are in reality the mighty
barriers, are so easily slid over.

And then thinking as men will think when they look on the figure of a
fair girl marching serenely to a sacrifice, the horrors of which they
insist that she ought to know: half-hating her for her calmness--
adoring her for her innocence: he said: 'It rests with you, Rose.

And then, and then my dish; Zotti's dish, that is not yet christened.

And then you will order all my actions; and I shall be certain that
they are such as I would proudly call mine; and I shall be shut away
from the world.

And then the couple had a pleasant petitish wrangle;--he was requested
to avow that he had came solely, or principally, to beg forgiveness of
her, who had such heaps to forgive.

And then once more, and but for once, her voice was heard in Milan.

And then she exclaimed, 'Oh, the blessed child's poor papa!

And then at Temple, 'You see if I wouldn't.

And then to change the subject he dilated on that strange story of the
man who, an enormous number of years back in the date of the world's
history, carried his little son on his shoulders one night when the
winds were not so boisterous, though we were deeper in Winter, along
the identical road we traversed, between the gorsemounds, across the
heaths, with yonder remembered fir-tree clump in sight and the waste-
water visible to footfarers rounding under the firs.

And then with 'Gee' and 'Gaw,' the marquis spouted out reminiscences
of scene, the best ever witnessed!

And then: 'I ought to tell you the princess is well, and so on--pardon
me just now: Grandada is kept waiting, and I don't like it.

And then they fled, chased forth either by the brilliancy of the
politically allusive epigrams profusely inscribed around them on the
walls, or by the atmosphere.

And then a truce to all that Radical rageing and hot- pokering of the
country!

And then he determined to let the fellow have five minutes alone with
him.

And then he walked firmly out of Romfrey oakwoods, and, at a mile's
distance from her, related to his countess Rosamund that the burial
was over without much silly ceremony, and that she needed to know
nothing of it whatever.

And then they came together, and there was wit and repartee suitable
to the electrical atmosphere of the dancing-room, on the march to a
magical hall of supper.

And then did the best man of a host blow his triumphant horn, and
loudly.

And then you talk to yourself, just as boys do when they are blown.

And then they're dead," said Crossjay.

And then, if you think well enough of me--if I have not stumbled more
than twice, or asked more than ten times how far it is from the top, I
should like to be promoted to scale a giant.

"And then there is the cruelty, the injury!"

And then let him cork it.

And then that look of hers!

And then a disembodied thought flew round her, comparing her with
Vernon to her discredit.

And then was the time for her chastisement.

And then a formal and noble offer on his part to keep to the
engagement with the unhappy wreck: yes, and to lead the limping thing
to the altar, if she insisted.

And then he turned to Mrs. Mountstuart to speak of Paradise and Adam,
in whom he saw the prototype of himself: also the Hebrew people in the
bondage of Egypt, discoursed of by the clergymen, not without a
likeness to him.

And then I went in due time to Dr. Cupid on my own account.

And then would his nostrils begin to lift and sniff at the creeping up
of a thick pestiferous vapour.

And then I am sure you must have them by themselves.

And thence Dr. Middleton was to be hauled along to the habitable
quarters of North Italy in high Summer-tide.

And then she thought of the person that Ophelia of fifty might be, who
would have to find a good apology for him in his dose of snake-bite,
or love of a younger woman whom he termed gold-crested serpent.

And then they were in the presence of her mother and sister.

And then he relates an anecdote of the husband, said to have been not
a bad fellow before he married his Diana; and the naming of the
Goddess reminds him that the second person in the indictment is now
everywhere called 'The elderly shepherd';--but immediately after the
bridal bells this husband became sour and insupportable, and either
she had the trick of putting him publicly in the wrong, or he lost all
shame in playing the churlish domestic tyrant.

'And then he is no longer a hero.

And then, as one intending gently to remonstrate, he was on the point
of stretching out his finger to the shoulder of Mr. Malkin, when
Redworth seized his arm, saying: 'I 'm your man: me first: you're due
to me.

And then one may have to regret a previous rashness.

'And then you would not dream of flight before it!

And then-good-bye gentility!

And then he recalled the scene in the winter beech-woods, and Diana's
wild-deer eyes; her, perfect generosity to a traitor and fool.

And then what was her life!

And then she thought of Tony's piteous instance; and thinking with her
heart, the tears insisted on that bitter irony of the heavens, which
bestowed the long-withheld and coveted boon when it was empty of value
or was but as a handful of spices to a shroud.

And then her comic imagination pictured Redworth dramatically making
love.

And then sets to work to persecute him, because he has blood in his
veins, because he worships beauty; because he seeks a real marriage, a
real mate.

And then we scampered on the beach, To chase the foaming wave; And
when we ran beyond its reach We all became more brave.

And then they become fathers of families, and point the finger at the
"wretched creatures.

And then the girls heard that the anonymous 'Your Antagonist,' on
being cited to proclaim himself in public assembly of school-mates and
masters, had jumped on his legs and into the name of--one who was
previously thought by Miss Vincent's good girls incapable of the
'appalling wickedness,' as Mr. Cuper called it, of signing 'Your
Antagonist' to a Christian school- fellow, having the design to
provoke a breach of the law of the land and shed Christian blood.

And then your mountains.

And then, full of yourself, not thinking of Elizabeth, but to withdraw
in the chivalrous attitude of the man true to his word to the old
woman, only stickling to bring a certain independence to the common
stock, because-- I quote you!

"And then old Tinman said, 'And a D. to you; and if I lift my finger,
it's Big D. on your back."

And then he sells me my house at an advanced price, and I buy, and
then he votes against a penny for the protection of the shore!

And then the maid came to my door with a letter: 'Mr.

And then like the winter brickfields at midnight, hot fire lengthened
out.

And then the two embraced.

And then," he said, "the governor left the room.

And then?

And then, monsieur, you did me the honour to come to my own country.

And then they stood about, as soldiers do; now, with their hands
loosely clasped before them; now, resting a knee or a shoulder; now,
easing a belt or a pouch; now, opening the door to spit stiffly over
their high stocks, out into the yard.

And then he took us home and hammered us.

And then I looked at the stars, and considered how awful if would be
for a man to turn his face up to them as he froze to death, and see no
help or pity in all the glittering multitude.

And then we all waved our swords and hurrahed.

And then they both stared at me, and I, with an obtrusive show of
artlessness on my countenance, stared at them, and plaited the right
leg of my trousers with my right hand.

And then I told Joe that I felt very miserable, and that I hadn't been
able to explain myself to Mrs. Joe and Pumblechook, who were so rude
to me, and that there had been a beautiful young lady at Miss
Havisham's who was dreadfully proud, and that she had said I was
common, and that I knew I was common, and that I wished I was not
common, and that the lies had come of it somehow, though I didn't know
how.

And then fell to pulling off, not only his jacket and waistcoat, but
his shirt too, in a manner at once light-hearted, business-like, and
bloodthirsty.

And then he would rumple my hair the wrong way,--which from my
earliest remembrance, as already hinted, I have in my soul denied the
right of any fellow-creature to do,--and would hold me before him by
the sleeve,--a spectacle of imbecility only to be equalled by himself.

And then repeated, with her former pleasant change, "shall we walk a
little farther, or go home?

And then we contemplated one another afresh, and laughed again.

And then I was recommended to the place as a man who could give
another man as good as he brought, and I took it.

And then looked all round the room, and paused with his pocket-
handkerchief in his hand, half-way to his nose.

And then, dear boy, it was a recompense to me, look'ee here, to know
in secret that I was making a gentleman.

And then he catched hold of us, and kep on a talking to her, and
answering of her, till I half believed I see her myself.

And then she added, with a stress upon the words, "It is in the nature
formed within me.

And then I thought of Estella, and of our parting, and went home very
sadly.

And then, "When she first came, I meant to save her from misery like
mine.

And then, "Take the pencil and write under my name, 'I forgive her!

"And then you will be married, Herbert?"

And then, when I have eaten and drunk with you, go with me as far as
the finger-post, dear Joe and Biddy, before we say good by!

And then the prince and Briar Rose were married, and the wedding feast
was given; and they lived happily together all their lives long.

And then he told the king all that had happened, and showed him the
three branches and the golden cup which he had brought with him.

And then he heard her say: 'Blow, breezes, blow!

And then her wicked heart was glad, and as happy as such a heart could
be.

And then Ashputtel took the dishes to her mother, rejoicing to think
that she should now go to the ball.

And then he was still more ridiculed.

"And then," continued the duchess, with an innocent air, "then I do
not believe either that Lord Hertford is to blame for your recall."

And then, that look which he directed over to her at the moment when
he had conquered his antagonist, Henry Howard, and hurled the lance
from his hand!

And then I made a brusque movement, and one of the remaining posts of
that vanished fence leaped up in the field of my glass.

And then that imbecile crowd down on the deck started their little
fun, and I could see nothing more for smoke.

And then they very nearly buried me.

And then I can paddle over to town nights, and slink around and pick
up things I want.

And then something struck me.

And then he busted into tears, and so did everybody.

And then he had fetched away a three-gallon jug of whisky, too, that
he found under a wagon when he was starting home through the woods.

And then one by one they got up and stood, and went a-weaving around
the ring so gentle and wavy and graceful, the men looking ever so tall
and airy and straight, with their heads bobbing and skimming along,
away up there under the tent-roof, and every lady's rose- leafy dress
flapping soft and silky around her hips, and she looking like the most
loveliest parasol.

And then faster and faster they went, all of them dancing, first one
foot out in the air and then the other, the horses leaning more and
more, and the ringmaster going round and round the center-pole,
cracking his whip and shouting "Hi!--hi!

And then waltzed in and cussed HIMSELF awhile, and said it all come of
him not laying late and taking his natural rest that morning, and he'd
be blamed if he'd ever do it again.

And then think of ME!

And then mosey right down the lightning-rod and come along.

And then when I went up to bed she come up with me and fetched her
candle, and tucked me in, and mothered me so good I felt mean, and
like I couldn't look her in the face; and she set down on the bed and
talked with me a long time, and said what a splendid boy Sid was, and
didn't seem to want to ever stop talking about him; and kept asking me
every now and then if I reckoned he could a got lost, or hurt, or
maybe drownded, and might be laying at this minute somewheres
suffering or dead, and she not by him to help him, and so the tears
would drip down silent, and I would tell her that Sid was all right,
and would be home in the morning, sure; and she would squeeze my hand,
or maybe kiss me, and tell me to say it again, and keep on saying it,
because it done her good, and she was in so much trouble.

And then she says: "Yes, you BETTER turn y'r head away--I would if I
was you, Tom.

And then Tom he talked along and talked along, and says, le's all
three slide out of here one of these nights and get an outfit, and go
for howling adventures amongst the Injuns, over in the Territory, for
a couple of weeks or two; and I says, all right, that suits me, but I
ain't got no money for to buy the outfit, and I reckon I couldn't get
none from home, because it's likely pap's been back before now, and
got it all away from Judge Thatcher and drunk it up.

And then he notes the following chant by John Jones: [Jones was
organist of St Paul's Cathedral at this time.

And then there was Mrs Billington, the famous singer, whom Michael
Kelly describes as "an angel of beauty and the Saint Cecilia of song.

And then the Goddess took her zone,--where lies All her enchantment,
love and lustihead, And the glad converse that beguiles the wise, And
grace the very Gods may not despise, And sweet Desire that doth the
whole world move, - And therewith touch'd she Helen's sleeping eyes
And made her lovely as the Queen of Love.

And then he hurl'd into the night alone, Wailing unto the spirit of
his son, That somewhere in dark mist and sighing wind Must dwell, nor
yet to Hades had it won, Nor quite had left the world of men behind.

And then we parted--at least, until I remembered that I had written
straight off to tell you the night before, and that frightened him
again.

And then, remembering that in England the new-comer ought not to call
before she is called upon, she changed her tone from awe to
disapproval, and opined that Mrs. Wilcox was "keine Dame.

And then, turning her face to her sister's, she burst into tears.

And then he dived into the coffee-room, and she heard him say, "For
God's sake, hurry the women up; we shall never be off," and Albert
Fussell reply, "Not I; I've done my share," and Colonel Fussell opine
that the ladies were getting themselves up to kill.

And then Aidos and Nemesis (7), with their sweet forms wrapped in
white robes, will go from the wide-pathed earth and forsake mankind to
join the company of the deathless gods: and bitter sorrows will be
left for mortal men, and there will be no help against evil.

And thence you went speeding swiftly to the mountain ridge, and came
to Crisa beneath snowy Parnassus, a foothill turned towards the west:
a cliff hangs over if from above, and a hollow, rugged glade runs
under.

And then he felt the misery of his life.

And then the indignity of calling him Mr. Perkins!

And then suddenly he said: "I remember Mr. Gordon used to call me a
gipsy counter-jumper when I was in his form.

And then, seeing Philip: "Oh, it's you.

And then shyly, with a little break in her voice, she asked: "You are
glad to come back to your home, aren't you?

And then you go to freedom and I to bondage," returned Miss Wilkinson.

And then perhaps we shall never see one another again.

And then Paris!

And then we won't 'alf go on the razzle.

And then with a start he remembered that he had heard Fanny Price say
just that.

And then beautiful things grow rich with the emotion that they have
aroused in succeeding generations.

And then I think he's been awfully hard up lately.

And then a minute or two afterwards someone else entered the room and
expressed his surprise at finding Griffiths there.

And then I didn't see him for months, and when he came to the shop
again and asked me I don't know what came over me.

And then I was sick of going to the shop every morning, and I wasn't
getting on very well with my aunt; she wanted to treat me as a servant
instead of a relation, said I ought to do my own room, and if I didn't
do it nobody was going to do it for me.

And then you came along and you were so good to me.

And then on a sudden, without warning, Mildred broke into a storm of
tears.

And then if you don't feel well at any time you can just go to bed,
and I shall be there to look after you.

And then he told how a friend--his good taste did not suffer him more
than to hint subtly who the friend was with such gracious fancies--had
laid a laurel wreath on the dead poet's heart; and the beautiful dead
hands had seemed to rest with a voluptuous passion upon Apollo's
leaves, fragrant with the fragrance of art, and more green than jade
brought by swart mariners from the manifold, inexplicable China.

And then, if you please, with an eye gone and a piece of his face blow
away, he came to the conclusion that the world wasn't such a bad place
after all, and he lived happily ever afterwards.

And then, in Paris, she felt like a stranger and an intruder.

And then it was such an emotion to find the serene calm of an European
place of worship in the midst of the distasteful turmoil of the
Chinese country.

And then the agonized thoughts returned more horrible, and her wailing
cry broke out again as she beat her head against the wall.

And then he told me that I could see Nastasia Philipovna at the opera-
house that evening, if I liked, and described which was her box.

And then, all those three years, I tried to understand why men should
be for ever tormenting themselves.

And then something so important happened, that Schneider himself urged
me to depart.

And then, all at once you are talking of this mad project--of these
seventy-five thousand roubles!

And then, you would hardly believe it, but my mother-- Nina
Alexandrovna--helps Hippolyte in all sorts of ways, sends him money
and clothes.

And then I wish to go abroad.

And then Alexandra wanted to shave her head, not from caprice or
mischief, but, like a little fool, simply because Aglaya persuaded her
she would sleep better without her hair, and not suffer from headache!

And then--Yes, and then--this abominable prince showed his face again,
and everything went topsy-turvy at once, and everyone seemed as mad as
March hares.

And then--is all this a joke on her part, or is she in earnest?

And then their way of preaching; they have a skilful manner of doing
it!

And then the Queen made answer, 'What know I?

And then the two Dropt to the cove, and watched the great sea fall,
Wave after wave, each mightier than the last, Till last, a ninth one,
gathering half the deep And full of voices, slowly rose and plunged
Roaring, and all the wave was in a flame: And down the wave and in the
flame was borne A naked babe, and rode to Merlin's feet, Who stoopt
and caught the babe, and cried "The King!

And then she sang, '"O morning star" (not that tall felon there Whom
thou by sorcery or unhappiness Or some device, hast foully
overthrown), "O morning star that smilest in the blue, O star, my
morning dream hath proven true, Smile sweetly, thou!

And then when turning to Lynette he told The tale of Gareth,
petulantly she said, 'Ay well--ay well--for worse than being fooled Of
others, is to fool one's self.

And then he thought, 'In spite of all my care, For all my pains, poor
man, for all my pains, She is not faithful to me, and I see her
Weeping for some gay knight in Arthur's hall.

And then, because their hall must also serve For kitchen, boiled the
flesh, and spread the board, And stood behind, and waited on the
three.

And then she followed Merlin all the way, Even to the wild woods of
Broceliande.

And then I rose and fled from Arthur's court To break the mood.

And then he taught the King to charm the Queen In such-wise, that no
man could see her more, Nor saw she save the King, who wrought the
charm, Coming and going, and she lay as dead, And lost all use of
life: but when the King Made proffer of the league of golden mines,
The province with a hundred miles of coast, The palace and the
princess, that old man Went back to his old wild, and lived on grass,
And vanished, and his book came down to me.

And then behold a woman at a door Spinning; and fair the house whereby
she sat, And kind the woman's eyes and innocent, And all her bearing
gracious; and she rose Opening her arms to meet me, as who should say,
"Rest here;" but when I touched her, lo!

And thence I past Far through a ruinous city, and I saw That man had
once dwelt there; but there I found Only one man of an exceeding age.

'And thence I dropt into a lowly vale, Low as the hill was high, and
where the vale Was lowest, found a chapel, and thereby A holy hermit
in a hermitage, To whom I told my phantoms, and he said: '"O son, thou
hast not true humility, The highest virtue, mother of them all; For
when the Lord of all things made Himself Naked of glory for His mortal
change, 'Take thou my robe,' she said, 'for all is thine,' And all her
form shone forth with sudden light So that the angels were amazed, and
she Followed Him down, and like a flying star Led on the gray-haired
wisdom of the east; But her thou hast not known: for what is this Thou
thoughtest of thy prowess and thy sins?

And then, with small adventure met, Sir Bors Rode to the lonest tract
of all the realm, And found a people there among their crags, Our race
and blood, a remnant that were left Paynim amid their circles, and the
stones They pitch up straight to heaven: and their wise men Were
strong in that old magic which can trace The wandering of the stars,
and scoffed at him And this high Quest as at a simple thing: Told him
he followed--almost Arthur's words-- A mocking fire: "what other fire
than he, Whereby the blood beats, and the blossom blows, And the sea
rolls, and all the world is warmed?

And then they were agreed upon a night (When the good King should not
be there) to meet And part for ever.

And then beyond the Reflecting Pool the dignified columns of the
Lincoln Memorial.

And then we will do the wisest thing of all: We will turn to the only
resource we have that in times of need always grows - the goodness and
the courage of the American people.

And then the Statutes go on to enact --we cull from various chapters:
"The English cannot any more make peace or war with the Irish without
special warrant; it is made penal to the English to permit the Irish
to send their cattle to graze upon their land; the Irish could not be
presented by the English to any ecclesiastical benefice; they--the
Irish--could not be received into any monasteries or religious houses;
the English could not entertain any of their bards, or poets, or
shanachies, " etc.

And then, as now you evaded giving me an answer.

"And then - and then?"

And then, one may be travelling; and then you wish to have seven suits
always with you.

"And then?"

And then, as soon as you are accustomed to look upon the prisoner as a
dangerous man, all of a sudden, without rhyme or reason they write -
'Set him at liberty,' and actually add to their missive - 'urgent.

And then, the presence of Aramis, who had returned from Belle-Isle,
and been nominated by Monsieur Fouquet inspector-general of all the
arrangements; his perseverance in mixing himself up with all the
surintendant's affairs; his visits to Baisemeaux; all this suspicious
singularity of conduct had excessively troubled and tormented
D'Artagnan during the last two weeks.

And then, M. Fouquet is a man of honor.

And then he looked all round him.

And then, really," said Baisemeaux to his next in command, "an
ordinary prisoner is already unhappy enough in being a prisoner; he
suffers quite enough, indeed, to induce one to hope, charitably
enough, that his death may not be far distant.

"And then to wake Aramis, who sleeps very soundly, when he is asleep,
I put that down at another five minutes; making a total of fifteen
minutes' absence."

And then the looks of the two men met, and they both saw that they had
understood each other without exchanging a syllable.

"And then?"

And then," continued the bishop, "as an answer to what you were coming
to ask the king, my dear D'Artagnan, here is an order of his majesty,
which you will be good enough to attend to forthwith, for it concerns
M.

And then he added, "I will lead the way, monseigneur," and he
conducted Aramis to Fouquet's apartments.

And then," replied the latter, after having mastered his feelings,
"should I be the man I really am, should I be the true friend you
believe me, if I were to expose you, whom the king already hates so
bitterly, to a feeling more than ever to be dreaded in that young man?

And then, without touching Fouquet's hand, he turned his head aside,
and stepped back a pace or two.

And then it was the blood of Louis XIII.

And then, as you have said just now, M. Fouquet is there.

And then, you know me of old, I fancy, and you know that when I once
make up my mind to a thing, I perform it in grim earnest.

And then - " "And then - you commanded us to be shot.

"And then," said Fouquet, "because it is impossible it should be the
king, Gourville, as the king was still in Paris yesterday."

And then I had another reason.

And then, when I shall be great and strong, when France is great and
strong, in my turn, then, will I cry, 'Mercy'!

And then, must it be said, that nature, exquisite in tenderness and
reserve, no longer finding anything to understand its feelings, gave
itself up to grief with all the warmth of common natures when they
yield to joy.

And then the dismal monotonous walk recommenced, until, exhausted, he
regained the chamber and his bed, his domicile by choice.

"And then your negotiations will fail?"

And then, monsieur l'ambassadeur, you may not believe what I am going
to tell you, but I have a still further idea.

And then came the news of Leclerc's death (November 2, 1802) .

And then, without further formalities, Goulburn stated in blunt and
business-like fashion the matters on which they had been instructed:
impressment, fisheries, boundaries, the pacification of the Indians,
and the demarkation of an Indian territory.

And then my mind made its first earnest effort to comprehend what had
been infused into it concerning heaven and hell; and for the first
time it recoiled, baffled; and for the first time glancing behind, on
each side, and before it, it saw all round an unfathomed gulf: it felt
the one point where it stood -- the present; all the rest was formless
cloud and vacant depth; and it shuddered at the thought of tottering,
and plunging amid that chaos.

And then, after all, I go too fast in my conclusions: for what I yet
know, you may be no better than the rest; you may have intolerable
defects to counterbalance your few good points.

And then they had called her to a sofa, where she now sat, ensconced
between them, chattering alternately in French and broken English;
absorbing not only the young ladies' attention, but that of Mrs.
Eshton and Lady Lynn, and getting spoilt to her heart's content.

And then, to my great relief, Mr. Henry Lynn summoned them to the
other side of the room, to settle some point about the deferred
excursion to Hay Common.

And then a spasm constricted her mouth for an instant: as it passed
away she turned and left the room, and so did I.

And then I strangled a new-born agony -- a deformed thing which I
could not persuade myself to own and rear -- and ran on.

"And then you won't know me, sir; and I shall not be your Jane Eyre
any longer, but an ape in a harlequin's jacket -- a jay in borrowed
plumes."

And then, nobody need to have a quieter death nor he had.

And then she would pout like a disappointed child; a pensive cloud
would soften her radiant vivacity; she would withdraw her hand hastily
from his, and turn in transient petulance from his aspect, at once so
heroic and so martyr-like.

And then there are other chances in life far more thrilling and
rapture-giving: THIS is solid, an affair of the actual world, nothing
ideal about it: all its associations are solid and sober, and its
manifestations are the same.

And then this money came only to me: not to me and a rejoicing family,
but to my isolated self.

"And then," he pursued, "I am cold: no fervour infects me."

And then he will stay in England.

"And then," I continued, "though I have only sisterly affection for
him now, yet, if forced to be his wife, I can imagine the possibility
of conceiving an inevitable, strange, torturing kind of love for him,
because he is so talented; and there is often a certain heroic
grandeur in his look, manner, and conversation."

And then they called out to him that she was on the roof, where she
was standing, waving her arms, above the battlements, and shouting out
till they could hear her a mile off: I saw her and heard her with my
own eyes.

And then there was a presentation to the Queen, and to the Queen-
Mother, when Leoninus was more prolix than before, and Catharine even
more affectionate than her son; and there were consultations with
Chiverny and Villeroy, and Brulart and Pruneaux, and great banquets at
the royal expense, and bales of protocols, and drafts of articles, and
conditions and programmes and apostilles by the hundred weight, and at
last articles of annexation were presented by the envoys, and Pruneaux
looked at and pronounced them "too raw and imperative," and the envoys
took them home again, and dressed them and cooked them till there was
no substance left in them; for whereas the envoys originally offered
the crown of their country to France, on condition that no religion
but the reformed religion should be tolerated there, no appointments
made but by the States, and no security offered for advances to be
made by the Christian King, save the hearts and oaths of his new
subjects--so they now ended by proposing the sovereignty
unconditionally, almost abjectly; and, after the expiration of nearly
three months, even these terms were absolutely refused, and the
deputies were graciously permitted to go home as they came.

And then, on the lath March, M. d'Oignon came to them, and presented,
on the part of the King, to each of the envoys a gold chain weighing
twenty- one ounces and two grains.

And then," asked one particular busy body, who made himself very
unpleasant on the Amsterdam Exchange, "why has her Majesty forbidden
all noblemen and gentlemen from coming hither, as was the case at the
beginning?

And then he went into particulars, and discussed, 'more suo,' the
constitutional question, in which various Leicestrian counsellors
seconded him.

And then there was a return quintuplication, in choice Latin, by the
classic Dale, and then there was a colloquy on the quintuplication,
and everything that had been charged, and truly charged, by the
English; was now denied by the King's commissioners; and Champagny--
more gouty and more irascible than ever--"chopped in" at every word
spoken by King's envoys or Queen's, contradicted everybody, repudiated
everything said or done by Andrew de Loo, or any of the other secret
negotiators during the past year, declared that there never had been a
general cessation of arms promised, and that, at any rate, times were
now changed, and such an armistice was inadmissible!

And then, after all this diplomatic and rhetorical splutter, the high
commissioners recovered their temper and grew more polite, and the
King's "envoys excused themselves in a mild, merry manner," for the
rudeness of their speeches, and the Queen's envoys accepted their
apologies with majestic urbanity, and so they separated for the day in
a more friendly manner than they had done the day before.

And then the old Leaguer, who had always refused bribes himself,
although he had negotiated much bribery of others, warmed into sincere
eloquence as he spoke of the simple virtues on which the little
republic, as should be the case with all republics, was founded.

And then Aerssens bewitches them, and they imagine that after having
played runaway horses his Majesty will be only too happy to receive
them back, caress them, and, in order to have their friendship,
approve everything they have been doing right or wrong.

And then they asked him if there was nothing that troubled him in, his
conscience in the matters for which he must die; nothing for which he
repented and sorrowed, and for which he would call upon God for mercy.

And then he fell into political discourse again on the subject of the
Waartgelders and the State rights, and the villainous pasquils and
libels that had circulated so long through the country.

And then came Akela's deep bay, crying: "Look well--look well, O
Wolves!

And then, man-cub?

"And then, and then, they gave me nuts and pleasant things to eat, and
they--they carried me in their arms up to the top of the trees and
said I was their blood brother except that I had no tail, and should
be their leader some day."

And then he called aloud: "To the tank, Bagheera.

And then turning to her younger sister, she said: "Do you not think
so, Tamayori?

And then he continued to dream, and thought he might become even a
bishop by leading a pure, energetic, wise, Christian life.

And then this passing discriminative power was withdrawn, and Jude was
lost to all conditions of things in the advent of a fresh and wild
pleasure, that of having found a new channel for emotional interest
hitherto unsuspected, though it had lain close beside him.

And then we can do Fonthill if we like-- all in the same afternoon.

And then the train moved on, and waving her pretty hand to him she
vanished away.

And then we are cousins, and it is bad for cousins to marry.

And then they pretended to persuade themselves that all that had
happened was of no consequence, and that they could still be cousins
and friends and warm correspondents, and have happy genial times when
they met, even if they met less frequently than before.

And then he again uneasily saw, as he had latterly seen with more and
more frequency, the scorn of Nature for man's finer emotions, and her
lack of interest in his aspirations.

And then they had turned from each other in estrangement, and gone
their several ways, till at a distance of twenty or thirty yards both
had looked round simultaneously.

And then, you see, if you have rows, and he turns you out of doors,
you can get the law to protect you, which you can't otherwise, unless
he half-runs you through with a knife, or cracks your noddle with a
poker.

And then I thought of what you had said this morning as to whether we
ought.

And then bills were sent in, and the question arose, what could Jude
do with his great-aunt's heavy old furniture, if he left the town to
travel he knew not whither?

And then perceiving Arabella's garb her voice grew sympathetic in
spite of herself.

And then he must have had it wrote down for 'n.

And then--I don't know how it was-- I couldn't bear to let you go--
possibly to Arabella again--and so I got to love you, Jude.

And then gently pressing him away she got free, trying to mitigate the
sadness by saying: "We'll be dear friends just the same, Jude, won't
we?

And then--I should be FREE, and I could go to Jude!

And then to spend such a sum, all in a single day of your life, at a
wedding feast!

And then there was withered old poni Aniele--who was a widow, and had
three children, and the rheumatism besides, and did washing for the
tradespeople on Halsted Street at prices it would break your heart to
hear named.

And then the visitors were taken to the other parts of the building,
to see what became of each particle of the waste material that had
vanished through the floor; and to the pickling rooms, and the salting
rooms, the canning rooms, and the packing rooms, where choice meat was
prepared for shipping in refrigerator cars, destined to be eaten in
all the four corners of civilization.

And then there was Marija Berczynskas, who, fired with jealousy by the
success of Jurgis, had set out upon her own responsibility to get a
place.

And then again-- "a monthly rental of twelve dollars, for a period of
eight years and four months!

And then Teta Elzbieta broke forth into protestations and reproaches,
so that the people outside stopped and peered in at the window.

And then his wife might set out to look for him, and she too would
feel the cold; and perhaps she would have some of the children with
her--and so a whole family would drift into drinking, as the current
of a river drifts downstream.

And then Tamoszius' face would light up and he would get out his
fiddle, tuck it under his chin, and play.

And then suddenly the place would spring into activity, and the
merciless "speeding-up" would begin!

And then finally, when election day came, the packing houses posted a
notice that men who desired to vote might remain away until nine that
morning, and the same night watchman took Jurgis and the rest of his
flock into the back room of a saloon, and showed each of them where
and how to mark a ballot, and then gave each two dollars, and took
them to the polling place, where there was a policeman on duty
especially to see that they got through all right.

And then there was the condemned meat industry, with its endless
horrors.

And then there was "potted game" and "potted grouse," "potted ham,"
and "deviled ham"-- de-vyled, as the men called it.

And then again, when they went to pay their January's installment on
the house, the agent terrified them by asking them if they had had the
insurance attended to yet.

And then, to cap the climax, the floor boss would come rushing up with
a rifle and begin blazing away!

And then little Stanislovas began to whimper--who would take care of
him?

And then the farmer in Maine or California or Texas would buy this, at
say twenty-five dollars a ton, and plant it with his corn; and for
several days after the operation the fields would have a strong odor,
and the farmer and his wagon and the very horses that had hauled it
would all have it too.

And then, as she stood hesitating, about to speak, he seized her by
the arm, and half flung her from the room, slamming the door and
barring it with a table.

And then suddenly, as in an explosion, the horrible truth burst over
him, and he reeled and staggered back with a scream.

And then Marija--" A sob choked Stanislovas, and he stopped.

And then their toil, month by month, to get together the twelve
dollars, and the interest as well, and now and then the taxes, and the
other charges, and the repairs, and what not!

And then all the tricks of the packers, their masters, the tyrants who
ruled them-- the shutdowns and the scarcity of work, the irregular
hours and the cruel speeding-up, the lowering of wages, the raising of
prices!

And then Jurgis went limp, and caught himself on the ladder.

And then again came Ona's scream, smiting him like a blow in the face,
making him wince and turn white.

And then again Ona cried out; he could hear it nearly as plainly here,
and he staggered to his feet.

And then, by the light of the smoky lamp, he saw Marija who sat
nearest him, shaking her head slowly.

And then one afternoon, the ninth of his work in the place, when he
went to get his overcoat he saw a group of men crowded before a
placard on the door, and when he went over and asked what it was, they
told him that beginning with the morrow his department of the
harvester works would be closed until further notice!

And then, when he was able to use his hands, Jurgis took his bedding
again and went back to his task of shifting rails.

And then one Saturday night he jumped off the car and started home,
with the sun shining low under the edge of a bank of clouds that had
been pouring floods of water into the mud-soaked street.

And then, up in the garret, he heard sounds of wailing, in Marija's
voice.

And then among them some one would "take a shine" to him, and they
would go off together and travel for a week, exchanging reminiscences.

And then because of his memories and his shame, he was glad when
others joined them, men and women; and they had more drink and spent
the night in wild rioting and debauchery.

And then the other would begin to pour out some tale of misery, and
the man would say, "Come have a glass, and maybe that'll brace you up.

And then one day there befell Jurgis the one adventure of his life.

And then says she, 'Thass true, Freddie dear' (she's a smart one, is
Kitty), 'but I'm stayin' in the flat, an' you're goin' out into the
cold, cold night!

And then, gripping Jurgis tight with one hand, the young fellow began
searching his pockets with the other.

And then, while some of the other prisoners gathered round he told his
wild story; most of them were incredulous, but Duane knew that Jurgis
could never have made up such a yarn as that.

And then at night, when this throng poured out into the streets to
play--fighting, gambling, drinking and carousing, cursing and
screaming, laughing and singing, playing banjoes and dancing!

And then, through the rain and the darkness, far down the street he
saw red lights flaring and heard the thumping of a bass drum; and his
heart gave a leap, and he made for the place on the run--knowing
without the asking that it meant a political meeting.

And then on the morrow the newspapers would have a chance to report
the tremendous ovation, and to add that it had been no "silk-stocking"
audience, either, proving clearly that the high tariff sentiments of
the distinguished candidate were pleasing to the wage-earners of the
nation.

And then again someone nudged him, and he sat up with his old
terrified start!

And then turn over the page with me, and gaze upon the other side of
the picture.

And then he looked into Jurgis's face.

And then Jurgis would drop his work, whatever it was, and come, and
the other would say, "Comrade Jurgis, just tell these gentlemen what
you saw on the killing-beds.

And then the hotel-keeper would go on to show how the Socialists had
the only real remedy for such evils, how they alone "meant business"
with the Beef Trust.

And then he would go on to tell you that Socialism was "paternalism,"
and that if it ever had its way the world would stop progressing.

And then there was one who was known at the "millionaire Socialist.

And then, as Jurgis came out from this meeting, some one handed him a
paper which he carried home with him and read; and so he became
acquainted with the "Appeal to Reason.

And then the subject became Religion, which was the Archfiend's
deadliest weapon.

And then, explained Schliemann, society would break up into
independent, self-governing communities of mutually congenial persons;
examples of which at present were clubs, churches, and political
parties.

And then the editor wanted to know upon what ground Dr. Schliemann
asserted that it might be possible for a society to exist upon an
hour's toil by each of its members.

And then Schliemann went on to outline some of the wastes of
competition: the losses of industrial warfare; the ceaseless worry and
friction; the vices--such as drink, for instance, the use of which had
nearly doubled in twenty years, as a consequence of the
intensification of the economic struggle; the idle and unproductive
members of the community, the frivolous rich and the pauperized poor;
the law and the whole machinery of repression; the wastes of social
ostentation, the milliners and tailors, the hairdressers, dancing
masters, chefs and lackeys.

And then consider that, added to this competition in display, you
have, like oil on the flames, a whole system of competition in
selling!

And then," he continued, "place beside this fact of an unlimited food
supply, the newest discovery of physiologists, that most of the ills
of the human system are due to overfeeding!

And then again, it has been proven that meat is unnecessary as a food;
and meat is obviously more difficult to produce than vegetable food,
less pleasant to prepare and handle, and more likely to be unclean.

And then there were official returns from the various precincts and
wards of the city itself!

And then they will fool the voters once more, and all the powers of
plunder and corruption will be swept into office again!

And then will begin the rush that will never be checked, the tide that
will never turn till it has reached its flood--that will be
irresistible, overwhelming--the rallying of the outraged workingmen of
Chicago to our standard!

And then carry him out, and stone him, that he may die.

And then the unbelievers perished.

And then shall no blame attach to you in making proposals of
marriage92 to such women, or in keeping such intention to yourselves?

And then thou seest the rain forthcoming from their midst; and He
causeth clouds like mountains charged with hail, to descend from the
heaven, and He maketh it to fall on whom He will, and from whom He
will He turneth it aside.–The brightness of His lightning all but
taketh away the sight!

And then he whispered to his wife, as soon as Mary was out of hearing.

And then his clothes!

And then the butcher had written repeated letters to the bishop--to
bishop Proudie of Barchester, who had first caused his chaplain to
answer them, and had told Mr Crawley somewhat roundly what was his
opinion of a clergyman who ate meat and did not pay for it.

And then a day before the day named, Mrs Crawley had come into
Silverbridge, and had paid the butcher twenty pounds in four five-
pound notes.

And then I felt sure at the time that I had left it at Crawley's
house!

And then I did not say anything; but of course she knew.

And then she must go because of Major Grantly.

And then Grace found herself kneeling at her friend's feet.

And then the other question was pressed upon him; and he lifted up his
hands, and raised his voice, and swore by the Saviour in whom he
trusted, and he knew not from whence the money had come to him.

And then, whence was to come the money for the journey?

And then Miss Anne gave her a cloth cloak, very warm, with pretty
buttons and gimp trimmings--just such a cloak as any girl might like
to wear who thought that she would be seen out walking with her Major
Grantly on a Christmas morning.

And then Mr Cradell began to cry.

And then he wanted to make up a marriage between Bell and my cousin
Bernard.

And then he began to be fatigued.

And then--after the assizes, Mr Crawley might come to his senses; and
I think--mind you it's only an idea--but I think the committal might
be quashed.

And then, hurrying on to the subject with confused haste, in order
that a word or two might be spoken before her husband came back, she
expressed her thanks and his for the good things which had been sent
to them at Christmas-tide.

And then there was something of a protest in his manner, as though
remonstrating against a thing that was unbecoming to him.

And then came a frown upon his brow, and a gleam of fire into his
eyes, which effectually banished that look of humility which he had
assumed.

And then the archdeacon became very confidential about money matters--
not offering anything to his son, which, as he well knew, would be
seen through as palpable bribery and corruption--but telling him of
this little scheme and of that, of one investment and of another;--how
he contemplated buying a small property here, and spending a few
thousands on building there.

And then he also went out and took a walk by himself.

And then there was not another word said about Grace Crawley on that
occasion.

And then, as luck would have it, Grace Crawley got up and left the
room.

And then the letter was sent.

And then there are always so many other things to go to in May and
June and July.

And then again he accused himself of the same sin.

And then her mother!

And then the pose of the woman would be so good, so much strength, and
yet such grace!

And then it would not be possible for him to abstain from some
explanation.

And then I hate horse-hair chairs.

And then that brute had not as yet made his way down to Allington!

And then Lily had ceased to talk of him, and she did expect nothing.

And then she got up to leave him.

And then Mr Robarts had left him, fully convinced that any further
interference on his part could be of no avail.

And then the expense!

And then someone would whisper something of a madhouse.

And then how peculiar were the domestic affairs which he told!

And then there came an illness upon me, and I know not what passed.

And then he is disobedient!

And then, just as better times came to me, he stepped in!

And then, while Hopkins was arranging his spade so that he might lean
upon it for a little chat, Johnny was gone and had made his way into
the other garden.

And then I suppose I shall go and cut names about bridges--eh, Lady
Julia?

And then I feel ashamed of myself, and swear that I will do it no
more.

'And then,' he continued, without minding her words, 'at other times I
feel that it must be my own fault; that if I only persevered with
sufficient energy, I must be successful.

And then he considered in what manner it would be best and most
becoming that he should still prosecute his endeavour and repeat his
offer.

And then, 'if now' again and again, 'if now;--and still 'if now'.

And then as he remembered that he was only twenty-seven and that she
was twenty-four, he began to marvel at the feeling of grey old age
which had come upon him, and tried to make himself believe that he
would have her yet before the bloom was off her cheeks.

And then she went.

And then they had another little business between them.

And then again Mrs Van Siever would often go out in the morning, and
when she did so, would always go without her daughter.

And then on four different times the two ladies had to retire into Mrs
Broughton's room in order that Jael might be arrayed in various
costumes--and in each costume she had to kneel down, taking the hammer
in her hand, and holding the pointed stick which had been prepared to
do duty as the nail, upon the forehead of the dummy Sisera.

And then he thought of the condition he would be in, if he were to
find her some fine day in his own rooms, and if she were to tell him
that she could not go home again, and that she meant to remain with
him!

And then, you know, they are always living in the crater of a volcano.

And then he prayed--yes, prayed, that in his madness the Devil might
not be too strong for him, and that he might be preserved from some
terrible sin of murder or violence.

And then he had always heard so high a character of this man from his
son-in-law.

And then Mrs Walker whispered something further, which we may presume
to have been in intimation that the gentleman opposite--Major Grantly
--was supposed by some people to be very fond of Miss Grace Crawley.

And then, when he applied that Lady Alexandrina's small fortune should
be made over to him--according to a certain agreement under which he
had made over all his possessions to his wife, should she have
survived him--Mr Gazebee expressed a mild opinion that he was wrong in
his law, and blandly recommended an amicable lawsuit.

And then Mr Butterwell was nervous, and if the thing was managed well,
he might be cheated out of an assent, before time had been given him
in which to pluck up courage for refusing.

And then he remembered that Mrs Butterwell especially disliked Mr
Crosbie--disliked him because she knew that he snubbed her husband.

'And then he would have been too old to marry at all,' said Lily.

And then the squire made a clean breast of it and declared his full
purpose.

And then I suppose I shall be one of the bridesmaids.

And then she told herself that the hours were not tedious with her at
home, while sitting with her mother, with all her daily occupations
within her reach.

And then there came questions as to John's projected journey to the
Continent, and he explained that he was going on law-business, on
behalf of Mr Crawley, to catch the dean and Mrs Arabin, if it might be
possible.

And then he and Mrs Arabin are not together.

And then she added, almost in a whisper.

And then he went.

And then his poverty, and his struggles, and the sufferings of his
wife, were remembered; and stories were told from mouth to mouth of
his industry in his profession, of his great zeal among the
brickmakers of Hoggle End, of acts of charity done by him which
startled the people of the district into admiration:--how he had
worked with his own hands for the sick poor to whom he could not give
relief in money, turning a woman's mangle for a couple of hours, and
carrying a boy's load along the lanes.

And then there were serious debates whether he might not have stolen
the money without much sin, being mad or half-mad--touched with
madness when he took it; and whether he might not, in spite of such
temporary touch of madness, be well fitted for his parish duties.

And then the bishop came in and greeted his guest with his pleasantest
good humour.

And then the joke was over; for there had been a rumour, now for some
years prevalent in Barchester, that Bishop Proudie was not liberal in
his expenditure.

And then telling such terrible falsehoods about it!

And then for hours he thought of Dr Tempest and Mr Crawley,
considering what he had better do to repair the shipwreck of the
morning.

'And then I will go on to Jerusalem, after him.

And then he is such a man;--so singular, so unlike anybody else!

And then he would pause, never daring to produce such notes in
succession--one close upon the other.

And then he sat with Miss Posy quite happy for an hour or so.

And then he slept in his chair; and you know, ma'am, we never wake
him.

And then he went to bed.

And then he muttered to himself a word or two.

And then he had been in bed the whole day.

And then there was another pause.

'And then, about money?

And then they walked out of the Park together.

And then they moved on quickly, and the misery was soon over.

And then the old lady took them up, and altogether there came to be a
sort of feeling that they were to be regarded as friends.

And then Lady Lufton went home.

And then how was a man in the archdeacon's position to be desirous of
gentle words--gentle words which would not be efficient--when he knew
well in his heart of hearts that he had nothing but threats on which
to depend.

And then the archdeacon himself was so big and so clerical, and so
imposing.

And then we are so very poor.

And then, you see, land gives so much more than the rent.

And then she told herself that John would have a better chance if he
had been content to plead for himself.

And then Mrs Broughton laughed.

And then he handed her the letter as to which he had refused to speak
to her on the preceding day.

And then, in the next place, was it probable that the dean would act
upon such a letter by filling up the vacancy, even if he did get it?

And then he went, leaving Musselboro in the drawing-room.

And then being at the West End, and all that, gives a man such a
standing with a girl.

And then such a measure as that would bring punishment where
punishment was due.

And then they parted.

And then, as regarded this special Hogglestock job, how was he to get
paid for it?

And then he asked a sudden question, keeping his eye as he did so upon
a little square open window which communicated between the landlord's
private room and the bar.

And then the indictment must be quashed, or something of that kind
done.

And then Mr Toogood had only written one short scrap of a letter--just
three words, and they were written in triumph.

And then he saw her in Lombard Street, and put her into an omnibus.

And then she had bright eyes, and she flattered him, and allowed him
to scold her occasionally.

And then, Miss Dale, he is also so devoted!

And then he swore to himself a solemn oath, resolving that he would
repeat the purport of it to Lily herself--that this should be the last
attempt.

And then--was she in a moment to be talked out of the resolution of
years; and was she to give up herself, not because she loved, but
because the man who talked to her talked so well that he deserved a
reward?

And then the dean, finding it to be vain to expect to be left alone
with Mr Crawley for a moment--in vain also to wait for a proper
opening for that which he had to say--rushed violently at his other
subject.

And then there was again silence.

And then the absurdity of the thing, and the story that would go
abroad!

And then came letters from an attorney.

And then the turning of this lawyer's pewter To plate at Christmas.

And then, rules To give and take the lie by.

And then for making matches for rich widows, Young gentlewomen, heirs,
the fortunat'st man!

And then he was so sick -- DRUG.

And then come forth in pomp!

And then Gog-horned.

"And then, when there is a ray of sun, the garden is very small for
the convalescents."

And then, besides, we shall see God.

And then he opened a trunk full of jewels, all the jewels of the
cathedral of Embrun, which the thieves had given him.

And then, there is Rome.

And then, it will not be long before I return.

And then he runs the risk of getting crushed!

And then, she was in debt to the Thenardiers!

And then, he had been saying impertinent things to me for a long time:
`You are ugly!

And then, you, you come; you are certainly obliged to preserve order,
you lead off the woman who is in the wrong; but on reflection, since
you are a good man, you say that I am to be set at liberty; it is for
the sake of the little one, for six months in prison would prevent my
supporting my child.

And then, there still remained some petty but pressing debts in the
neighborhood, and they were collecting the bills for them, etc., etc.

And then, as the beginning of the story dates thirty years back, there
is no longer any one at Faverolles who knew Jean Valjean.

And then, there is the affair with the little Savoyard, who will
return, I hope.

And then, all of a sudden, he thought of Fantine.

And then, it was no longer the tilbury.

And then, without stirring, without even moving her head, she began to
stare all about her with wide-open eyes and a joyous air, and she said
nothing more.

And then, workmen are so mean!

And then, when all was said, although the President was a kindly and a
tolerably intelligent man, he was, at the same time, a devoted and
almost an ardent royalist, and he had been shocked to hear the Mayor
of M. sur M. say the Emperor, and not Bonaparte, when alluding to the
landing at Cannes.

And then there was nothing more for the poor.

And then people complain of the flour.

And then you will see her ears, and then you will see her tail and it
will amaze you.

And then, I have my daughters.

And then, that bundle of clothes prepared beforehand for the child;
all that was singular; many mysteries lay concealed under it.

And then he talked of her mother, and he made her pray.

And then she was with him, and she felt safe.

And then, the moon fell full upon that facade, and the man who was
watching at the corner of the street would have seen Jean Valjean in
the act of climbing.

And then, moreover, you it was who placed me here.

"And then, the wind is not blowing in my direction this morning."

And then, religion is attacked.

And then, that there was another: the empty coffin.

And then he reflected that these had been two houses of God which had
received him in succession at two critical moments in his life: the
first, when all doors were closed and when human society rejected him;
the second, at a moment when human society had again set out in
pursuit of him, and when the galleys were again yawning; and that, had
it not been for the first, he should have relapsed into crime, and had
it not been for the second, into torment.

And then, the Bible!

And then, over and above all, Marius experienced unutterable impulses
to revolt, when he reflected that it was M. Gillenormand who had, from
stupid motives, torn him ruthlessly from the colonel, thus depriving
the father of the child, and the child of the father.

And then, London, the metropolis of luxury, is the headquarters of
wretchedness.

And then, on the day when his grandfather had turned him out of doors,
he had been only a child, now he was a man.

And then, every morning, he sets himself afresh to the task of earning
his bread; and while his hands earn his bread, his dorsal column gains
pride, his brain gathers ideas.

And then, when, after a day spent in meditation, he returned in the
evening through the boulevards, and caught a glimpse through the
branches of the trees of the fathomless space beyond, the nameless
gleams, the abyss, the shadow, the mystery, all that which is only
human seemed very pretty indeed to him.

And then, they have cannons in the courtyard of the Louvre.

And then, she was no longer the school-girl with her felt hat, her
merino gown, her scholar's shoes, and red hands; taste had come to her
with beauty; she was a well-dressed person, clad with a sort of rich
and simple elegance, and without affectation.

And then, how she had looked at him!

And then, an unexpected bliss had happened to him, oil on the fire, a
redoubling of the shadows over his eyes.

And then she stared at him with a bewildered air.

And then should not the charity be all the more profound, in
proportion as the fall is great?

And then, Montparnasse had escaped Javert.

And then, to face the worst, there was danger only for himself, and he
had no right to condemn Cosette to the cloister for the reason that he
had been condemned to the galleys.

And then, she loved her father, that is to say, Jean Valjean, with all
her soul, with an innocent filial passion which made the goodman a
beloved and charming companion to her.

And then, she had so often been told that she was homely; Jean Valjean
alone said gently: "No indeed!

And then, strange to say, the first symptom of true love in a young
man is timidity; in a young girl it is boldness.

And then you will pass years in a dungeon, riveted to a wall, groping
for your jug that you may drink, gnawing at a horrible loaf of
darkness which dogs would not touch, eating beans that the worms have
eaten before you.

And then, their knives; they can't be able to cut well with them!

And then you disappeared.

"And then, we were afraid of being alone like that at night."

And then I'll take you to the play.

And then we'll go to see the guillotine work.

"And then," remarked the elder timidly,--he alone dared talk to
Gavroche, and reply to him, "a spark might fall in the straw, and we
must look out and not burn the house down."

And then?

And then, we insist upon it, the study of social deformities and
infirmities, and the task of pointing them out with a view to remedy,
is not a business in which choice is permitted.

And then, what an enchanted gleam when you open your thought even but
a little!

And then, when two lovers have come to an understanding, things always
go well; the third party who might disturb their love is kept in a
state of perfect blindness by a restricted number of precautions which
are always the same in the case of all lovers.

And then, Lieutenant Gillenormand sometimes came in his uniform, with
the tricolored cockade.

And then, throwing out your chest like a bully and lacing yourself
like a girl, with stays under your cuirass, is doubly ridiculous.

And then, are all uprisings calamities?

And then on the right bank, the left bank, on the quays, on the
boulevards, in the Latin country, in the quarter of the Halles,
panting men, artisans, students, members of sections read
proclamations and shouted: "To arms!

And then, there you see him, that horrid scamp, with his pistol!

And then he fell to weeping bitterly.

And then, it was clear that she no longer loved him, since she had
departed thus without warning, without a word, without a letter,
although she knew his address!

And then, what!

And then if we look at things from a still more lofty point of view,
why do we speak of civil war?

And then a struggle arose as to who should remain, and who should find
reasons for the others not remaining.

And then, destiny was there sufficiently stamped to make them hesitate
to touch it.

And then, whither was he to go?

And then, when you don't talk at all, you run no risk of talking too
loud.

And then, in proportion as he regained life, the old ulcers of his
memory opened once more, he reflected again on the past, Colonel
Pontmercy placed himself once more between M. Gillenormand and him,
Marius, he told himself that he had no true kindness to expect from a
person who had been so unjust and so hard to his father.

And then, what would the doctor have said?

And then, it seems that they cut your flesh with the scissors.

And then, Cosette had, for long years, been habituated to seeing
enigmas around her; every being who has had a mysterious childhood is
always prepared for certain renunciations.

And then, an idea occurred to M.

And then, Cosette, in whom the woman was beginning to dawn, was
delighted to be a Baroness.

And then, we must be cautious.

And then I asked: `Why do you say that to me?

And then, thou shouldst have some cashmere shawls.

And then, last night, I drank that whole jug of water.

And then, let us scrutinize your state reasons.

And then it covers them up snug, you know, with a white quilt; and
perhaps it says, "Go to sleep, darlings, till the summer comes again.

`And then there's the Butterfly,' Alice went on, after she had taken a
good look at the insect with its head on fire, and had thought to
herself, `I wonder if that's the reason insects are so fond of flying
into candles--because they want to turn into Snap-dragon-flies!

And then the little sleeves were carefully rolled up, and the little
arms were plunged in elbow-deep to get the rushes a good long way down
before breaking them off--and for a while Alice forgot all about the
Sheep and the knitting, as she bent over the side of the boat, with
just the ends of her tangled hair dipping into the water--while with
bright eager eyes she caught at one bunch after another of the darling
scented rushes.

`And then "MOME RATHS"?

`And then he took the helmet off again--but it took hours and hours to
get me out.

And then (as Alice afterwards described it) all sorts of thing
happened in a moment.

And then for suitors proud and high, To bend before my conquering
eye,-- Thou, flattering bard!

And then, to our amazement the New York crept towards us, slowly and
stealthily, as if drawn by some invisible force which she was
powerless to withstand.

And then, as I read in the quietness of the night, broken only by the
muffled sound that came to me through the ventilators of stewards
talking and moving along the corridors, when nearly all the passengers
were in their cabins, some asleep in bed, others undressing, and
others only just down from the smoking-room and still discussing many
things, there came what seemed to me nothing more than an extra heave
of the engines and a more than usually obvious dancing motion of the
mattress on which I sat.

And then, as we gazed awe-struck, she tilted slowly up, revolving
apparently about a centre of gravity just astern of amidships, until
she attained a vertically upright position; and there she remained--
motionless!

And then, creeping over the edge of the sea where the flash had been,
we saw a single light, and presently a second below it, and in a few
minutes they were well above the horizon and they remained in line!

And then, as if to make everything complete for our happiness, came
the dawn.

And then she found that she had leant upon a reed.

And then and there Jo renounced her old ambition, pledged herself to a
new and better one, acknowledging the poverty of other desires, and
feeling the blessed solace of a belief in the immortality of love.

And then Ozma would sit in her jeweled throne, with her chosen
courtiers all about her, and listen patiently to any complaint brought
to her by her subjects, striving to accord equal justice to all.

And then 'a stepped back, and then 'a looked in again.

And then," cried Farfrae impetuously, his face alight, "I sold it a
few weeks after, when it happened to go up again!

And then, when I had promised you, I learnt of the rumour that you had
--sold your first wife at a fair like a horse or cow!

And then when we got up in hall she sware that the cock pheasant was
one of her rearing, when 'twas not your bird at all, Joe; 'twas Squire
Brown's bird--that's whose 'twas--one that we'd picked off as we
passed his wood, an hour afore.

And then, bursting into naturalness, and glancing from the corner of
her eye, "'Tis the funniest thing under the sun!

And then his head rose through the trap behind.

And then he would say to himself, "O you fool!

And then the widow was thin; she had long teeth; wore in all weathers
a little black shawl, the edge of which hung down between her
shoulder-blades; her bony figure was sheathed in her clothes as if
they were a scabbard; they were too short, and displayed her ankles
with the laces of her large boots crossed over grey stockings.

And then along the highroad, spreading out its long ribbon of dust,
along the deep lanes that the trees bent over as in arbours, along
paths where the corn reached to the knees, with the sun on his back
and the morning air in his nostrils, his heart full of the joys of the
past night, his mind at rest, his flesh at ease, he went on, re-
chewing his happiness, like those who after dinner taste again the
truffles which they are digesting.

And then, still turning, but more slowly, he guided her back to her
seat.

And then one morning the Viscount had taken it away with him.

And then, does it not seem to you," continued Madame Bovary, "that the
mind travels more freely on this limitless expanse, the contemplation
of which elevates the soul, gives ideas of the infinite, the ideal?

And then the water at Paris, don't you know!

And then they told him stories of people who had all been cured by
other remedies than his.

And then I have such a nervous system!

And then, one night they came to a fishing village, where brown nets
were drying in the wind along the cliffs and in front of the huts.

And then, who knows?

And then when I come back to him--to him, rich, happy, free--to
implore the help the first stranger would give, a suppliant, and
bringing back to him all my tenderness, he repulses me because it
would cost him three thousand francs!

And then I shall never forget that," he said, slapping his thigh.

And then will He search Jerusalem with candles,(3) and the hidden
things of darkness(4) shall be made manifest, and the arguings of
tongues shall be silent.

And then I should know what to do, when I got older: I should see how
it was possible to lead a grand life here--now--in England.

And then his studies--so very dry, as you say.

And then all this immense expense of art, that seems somehow to lie
outside life and make it no better for the world, pains one.

And then, these exchanges, they don't answer when you have 'cute
jockeys to deal with.

And then, the old irritable demon prompting him to give another good
pinch at the moth-wings of poor Mr. Casaubon's glory, he went on, "And
I have seen since that Mr. Casaubon does not like any one to overlook
his work.

And then she could not help remembering that he had passed some time
with her under like circumstances, so why should there be any
unfitness in the fact?

And then he went out.

And then, too, there was the fresh smart of that disclosure about his
mother's family, which if known would be an added reason why
Dorothea's friends should look down upon him as utterly below her.

And then the children might be married by-and-by, Susan.

And then Will went out of the house, Martha never knowing that he had
been in.

And then he heard Lydgate's account of the troubles which Rosamond had
already depicted to him in her way.

And then I asked him if I might come to see you; because I felt so
much for his trouble and yours.

And then our husband--if he loved and trusted us, and we have not
helped him, but made a curse in his life--" Her voice had sunk very
low: there was a dread upon her of presuming too far, and of speaking
as if she herself were perfection addressing error.

And then there are all your plans!

And then it is all so different from what you have always been.

And then his behavior to you, father, is really good; he has a deep
respect for you; and it is impossible to have a better temper than
Fred has.

And then, if you and Fred get married," here Caleb's voice shook just
perceptibly, "he'll be steady and saving; and you've got your mother's
cleverness, and mine too, in a woman's sort of way; and you'll keep
him in order.

And then a sweet-voiced bell from somewhere high up towards Oberalp
chimes two-and-twenty times.

And then off goes a brisk clerk to the long galleries of the index
building.

And then, am I to be accused of poverty?

And then?

And thence the botanist and I walk on to the apartments that have been
set aside for us, and into which the poor little rolls of the property
that has accumulated about us in Utopia, our earthly raiment, and a
change of linen and the like, have already been delivered.

"And then?"

And then consider the sort of people who pronounce judgments on the
moral and intellectual capacity of the negro, the Malay, or the
Chinaman.

And then---- "Scars of the past!

And then, for measured moments in the night watches or as one walks
alone or while one sits in thought and speech with a friend, the wider
aspirations glow again with a sincere emotion, with the colours of
attainable desire.... That is my all about Utopia, and about the
desire and need for Utopia, and how that planet lies to this planet
that bears the daily lives of men.

And then it is called of physicians the vital spirit: because that
from the heart, by the wosen, and veins, and small ways, it spreadeth
itself into all the limbs of the body, and increaseth the virtues
spiritual, and ruleth and keepeth the works thereof.

And then he maketh her lady of his money, and of his house, and
meinie.

And then he is no less diligent and careful for her than he is for
himself: and specially lovingly he adviseth her if she do amiss, and
taketh good heed to keep her well, and taketh heed of her bearing and
going, of her speaking and looking, of her passing and ayencoming, out
and home.

And then is Numidia, and the province of Carthage.

And then they command to draw out of the clue unto three knots, or mo
or less, as they will have the wind more soft or strong.

And then it is taken out of the water, and laid abroad till it be
dried, and twined and wend in the sun, and then bound in pretty niches
and bundles.

And then other fish come to the whale's tail, and if the whale be
overcome the other fish die.

And then one of the hunters cometh to him and beateth and smiteth him,
and pricketh him full sore.

And then another hunter cometh and smiteth the first hunter, and doth
him away, and defendeth the elephant, and giveth him barley to eat,
and when he hath eaten thrice or four times, then he loveth him that
defended him, and is afterward mild and obedient to him.

And then he besiegeth cities to ransom and to take men: but when the
lions be taken, then they be hanged, for other lions should dread such
manner pain.

And then he besiegeth cities to ransom and to take men: but when the
lions be taken, then they be hanged, for other lions should dread such
manner pain.

And then the bear cometh and is an- hungered, and the log that hangeth
there on high letteth him: and he putteth away the wedge despiteously,
but after the removing the wedge falleth again and hitteth him on the
ear.

And then suddenly it struck me that what was dark to me might be very
light to Mr. Sherlock Holmes.

And then in an instant the key of the riddle was in my hands, and I
saw that every third word, beginning with the first, would give a
message which might well drive old Trevor to despair.

"And then?"

"And then?"

And then, of course, there is the bell--which is the most distinctive
feature of the case.

"And then?"

And then what had happened?

And then, my friends, we must foresee everything.

And then, no wages, do you hear, my boy?

And then," continued the sailor, "if the document was several years
old, if it had been shut up in that bottle for several years, it would
have been injured by damp.

And then he had the curiosity to examine this flaw with a strong
magnifier which he unscrewed from one of the telescopes.

And then he thought of his preservers--those who had made him again a
man, and an honest mm, those to whom he owed all--murdered without
pity, their works destroyed, their island turned into a pirates' den!

And then, the poor boy submitted with such docility to all the
prescriptions ordered him!

And then the father, who has nothing to do but pet them and spoil
them, comes in when all her work is done and steals their affection
from her.

And then, if Tom's to go and live at Mudport, like Riley, he'll have a
house with a kitchen hardly big enough to turn in, an' niver get a
fresh egg for his breakfast, an' sleep up three pair o' stairs,--or
four, for what I know,--and be burnt to death before he can get down.

And then if the flood came, you know, Bob, I shouldn't mind.

And then the mill, and the river, and Yap pricking up his ears, ready
to obey the least sign when Tom said, "Hoigh!

And then--here's this friend o' yours offers to buy the goods for you.

And then, if our secret were discovered, there would be nothing but
misery,--dreadful anger; and then we must part after all, and it would
be harder, when we were used to seeing each other.

And then, to have the footstool placed carefully by a too self-
confident personage,--not _any_ self-confident personage, but one in
particular, who suddenly looks humble and anxious, and lingers,
bending still, to ask if there is not some draught in that position
between the window and the fireplace, and if he may not be allowed to
move the work-table for her,--these things will summon a little of the
too ready, traitorous tenderness into a woman's eyes, compelled as she
is in her girlish time to learn her life-lessons in very trivial
language.

And then, if pain were so hard to _her_, what was it to others?

And then he inquired, whether we were not all much taken by surprise
at his having fainted?

And then, when he caught the sound of my voice, he continued: "And art
thou, my brother, likewise unwilling to see me at peace?

And then, as they were holding his mouth open by force to give him a
draught, he observed to M. de Belot: "An vivere tanti est?

And then, what do you think is the best thing in your work?

And then how easy a thing is it to satisfy the fancy?

And then we sat exchanging puffs from that wild pipe of his, and
keeping it regularly passing between us.

And then, presto!

And then the three harpooneers were bidden to the feast, they being
its residuary legatees.

And then it was, that suddenly sweeping his sickle-shaped lower jaw
beneath him, Moby Dick had reaped away Ahab's leg, as a mower a blade
of grass in the field.

And then, without at all alluding to the shovel, he pointed to three
lads, as the customary sweepers; who, not being billeted at the pumps,
had done little or nothing all day.

And then we marched confidently to the castle, where the savages
divided into two rows, and so let us pass through them by the gate,
which was--the one we went through--3 1/2 feet wide, and at the top
were standing three big wooden images, carved like men, and with them
I saw three scalps fluttering in the wind, that they had taken from
their foes as a token of the truth of their victory.

And then, that everything should be firmly binding, they called or
sang: "Ha assironi atsimach koo kent oya kayuig wee Onneyatte
Onaondaga Koyocke hoo hanoto wany agweganne hoo schene ha caton
scahten franosoni yndicho.

And then with what shame and regret would he look back upon himself!

And then I told him the particulars which I had observed him there.

And then she begged his assistance in it.

And then you talk of the distance which separates the planets from the
sun!

And then," added the merry Frenchman, "I am not sorry to have tasted a
little of this heady gas.

And then cometh the season and the end; and my vineyard will I cause
to be burned with fire.

And then may God grant unto you that your burdens may be light,
through the joy of his Son.

And then shall ye know that I am an honest man, and that I am sent
unto you from God.

And then shall ye lament, and say: Helaman 13:33 33 O that I had
repented, and had not killed the prophets, and stoned them, and cast
them out.

And then you'd know what he was: he was a great sea-captain.

And then Marco Polo knew him to be a Chinaman, because, as all the
world knows, Chinamen are never surprised at anything.

And then what happens but his uncle Matthew claps him on the back,
"How would you like to go to China, Marco Markeen," says he, "and
preach religion to the benighted people!

And then the watchword being given, a bell shall ring, Which when they
heare, they shall begin to kill: And never cease untill that bell
shall cease, Then breath a while.

And then shall Mounser weare the diadem.

And then he lay in wait with his evil eye and wicked gun, safely
ambushed behind the legend of his own incompetence.

And then I came into this room and I saw that.

And then, I've forgot my English so.

And then up stood a woman at my side--a-touching of me.

And then, when they got to church door he'd throw down the clarinet,
mount the gallery, snatch up the bass viol, and rozum away as if he'd
never played anything but a bass viol.

And then," said Diggory sadly, "I came away, for her history as Tamsin
Yeobright was over.

And then they consulted on the question, and the day was chosen.

"And then--and then you must come and see us."

And then he bowed in a manner of his own invention and moved to go.

And then she thought of his manner towards herself.

"And then I became calm."

And then she blushed and dropped her eyes, which he did not specially
observe, though her manner seemed to him to be rather peculiar,
considering that she was only addressing himself.

And then the party drove off and vanished in the night shades, and
Yeobright entered the house.

And then, think of all the scandalous fortunes accumulated, all the
malversations!

And then what title has the Chamber to demand my abdication?

And then occurred what everybody except M. Talma and his wife had
foreseen, that the Emperor, having seen her play once, was much
provoked that she had been allowed to come, and had her name struck
from the list.

And then, there was a sound as though Mr Mantalini were sipping his
coffee.

And then his lordship turned to another superlative gentleman,
something older, something stouter, something redder in the face, and
something longer upon town, and said in a loud whisper that the girl
was 'deyvlish pitty.

And then her thoughts flew back to her old predictions, and the number
of times she had said, that Kate with no fortune would marry better
than other people's daughters with thousands; and, as she pictured
with the brightness of a mother's fancy all the beauty and grace of
the poor girl who had struggled so cheerfully with her new life of
hardship and trial, her heart grew too full, and the tears trickled
down her face.

And then he added, anxiously, 'Yes; to keep her safe, that's all.

And then he glanced at Nicholas again, and, squeezing his hand, said,
'I am a bad one at putting off anything I am interested in.

And then they were both wroth.

And then all at once love turns up, and you're done for, done for,"
Stepan Arkadyevitch said with weary despair.

And then the mother wishes it," he added.

And then, he has deceived her so horribly.

And then!

And then, jealousy means lowering both myself and her," he told
himself as he went into her boudoir; but this dictum, which had always
had such weight with him before, had now no weight and no meaning at
all.

And then that portrait of me he did so well.

And then she does so much good!

And then--I thought over our conversation yesterday.

And then she knew their home would be in the country, and she wanted
to go, not abroad where she was not going to live, but to the place
where their home would be.

And then, c'est un interieur si joli, si comme il faut.

And then they do so much good.

And then the boat, perhaps," said Anna.

And then there occurred the first skirmish between the new party and
the old.

And then, to tell the truth, there's one's own interests.

And then she thought of her past with Alexey Alexandrovitch, of how
she had blotted the memory of it out of her life.

And then an idea suddenly struck her, which made her shudder and even
disturb Mitya, who glanced severely at her.

And then instead of that--disgust, pity..." She listened attentively,
looking at him over the baby, while she put back on her slender
fingers the rings she had taken off while giving Mitya his bath.

And then I said--[He looks at her pleadingly.

And then the will of Louis XIV was not respected; it is likely that
mine would be?

And then the third.

And then again he blew--blew like anything.

And then still nearer.

And then all our victuals in beggar's attire, At the hands of good
people we then did require; At last into England, as now it is seen,
We came, and remained in Bednall Green.

And then they brought him to a barn, A prisoner to endure; And so they
fetched him out again, And laid him on the floor.

And then I'll get a drinking with the landlord and his kin.

And then followed a full description of Oliver's dress, person,
appearance, and disappearance: with the name and address of Mr.
Brownlow at full length.

And then, the noises grew confused in the distance; and a cold deadly
feeling crept over the boy's heart; and he saw or heard no more.

And then he made a great many other remarks, no less illustrative of
his humility, which were received with equal favour and applause, and
were, withal, as original and as much to the purpose, as the remarks
of great men commonly are.

And then (had Fortune ordered matters so, As the most part desired
they should befall) Taken had been the Tartar king or slain; So had
that blow offended all the train.

And then," said Tip to himself, with a laugh, "she'll squeal louder
than the brown pig does when I pull her tail, and shiver with fright
worse than I did last year when I had the ague!

And then they got angry at the Wizard, and threat- 37 ened to expose
him; so the Wizard made a big balloon and escaped in it, and no one
has ever seen him since.

And then the door burst open and Nick Chopper rushed into their midst
and caught the Scarecrow in a close and loving embrace that creased
him into many folds and wrinkles.

And then, following the lead of the Scarecrow, they all advanced in
the direction of the Emerald City.

And then you can both rule," suggested the Woggle-Bug.

And then he said, Why, Pamela, you write a very pretty hand, and spell
tolerably too.

And then it was such a surprise upon us all!--I believe truly, you owe
some of your danger to the lovely appearance you made.

And then came the farmer, a good-like sort of man, grave, and well-
behaved; and spoke to me in such sort, as made me a little pacified;
and seeing no help for it, I went in; and the wife immediately
conducted me up stairs to the best apartment, and told me, that was
mine as long as I staid: and nobody should come near me but when I
called.

And then the wretch fell a laughing, and talked most impertinently,
and shewed me, that I had nothing to expect from her virtue or
conscience: and this gave me great mortification; for I was in hopes
of working upon her by degrees.

And then we walked in; and Mrs. Jewkes said; Well, you have made haste
now.--You shall go another time.

And then, thought I, (and oh!

And then she ridicules me, and laughs at my notions of honesty; and
tells me, impudent creature as she is!

And then I heard his voice on the stairs, as he was coming up to me.

And then I know what will become of me.

And then the woman said, Here is the line of Jupiter crossing the line
of life; and Mars-- Odd!

And then thou hast a memory, as I see by your papers, that nothing
escapes.

And then, I think, he might have sent to Colbrand, or to Robin, to
carry me back, whether I would or not.

And then, sir, you know, I love reading and scribbling; and though all
the latter will be employed in the family accounts, between the
servants and me, and me and your good self: yet reading, at proper
times, will be a pleasure to me, which I shall be unwilling to give
up, for the best company in the world, except yours.

And then I recounted to him the whole affair of the gipsy, and how the
letter was put among the loose grass, etc.

And then, and please your honour, he said, he could not bear this; for
his daughter was ruined, to be sure, before now.

And then your father, maybe, will stay.--I should have been glad to
have had it to-morrow, added he; but I have sent Monsieur Colbrand for
a license, that, you may have no scruple unanswered; and he can't very
well be back before to-morrow night, or Monday morning.

And then he said, So affectionate a father and daughter may, perhaps,
be glad to be alone together; therefore remember me to your good wife,
and tell her, it will not be long, I hope, before I see you together;
on a visit to your daughter, at my other house: and so I wish you good
night, and a good journey, if you go before I see you.

And then he shook hands, and left my dear father almost unable to
speak, through the sense of his favours and goodness.

And then I threw myself at his feet, blessed God, and blessed him for
his goodness; and he overwhelmed me with kindness, calling me his
sweet bride, and twenty lovely epithets, that swell my grateful heart
beyond the power of utterance.

And then your gipsy story will be made out, that she will have a
husband younger than herself.

And then our servants, too, will know, generally, the times of their
business, and the hours of their leisure or recess; and we, as well as
they, shall reap the benefits of this regularity.

And then laughed like an idiot, for all he is a lord's son, and may be
a lord himself.--For he is the son of Lord ----; and his mother, who
was Lord Davers's sister, being dead, he has received what education
he has, from Lord Davers's direction.

And then it was, Am I not worthy an answer?

And then I shewed her your kind letter; and she made a thousand
remarks upon it, and made me wish I had not.

And then I had certainly been cuffed, if her woman had not interposed,
and told her I was not worthy her anger; and that I was as much to be
pitied for my credulity, as despised for my vanity.

And then I thought I should have had her ladyship upon me; but her
woman interposed.

And then he took both our hands, and joined them; and my lady saluting
me again, with tears on both sides, he put his kind arms about each of
our waists, and saluted us with great affection, saying, Now, God
bless you both, the two dearest creatures I have in the world!

And then, next, after we have, perhaps, half broken their hearts, a
wife is looked out for: convenience, or birth, or fortune, are the
first motives, affection the last (if it is at all consulted): and two
people thus educated, thus trained up, in a course of unnatural
ingratitude, and who have been headstrong torments to every one who
has had a share in their education, as well as to those to whom they
owe their being, are brought together; and what can be expected, but
that they should pursue, and carry on, the same comfortable conduct in
matrimony, and join most heartily to plague one another?

And then came in the postilion, and two helpers, (for my master has
both here, and at Lincolnshire, fine hunting horses; and it is the
chief sport he takes delight in,) as also the scullion-boy: And I
said, How do all of you?

And then I stept to her again, and kissed her; and said, Join with me,
my pretty love, to beg your dear uncle to let you come and live with
your new aunt: Indeed, my little precious, I'll love you dearly.

And then, in a sweet and easy accent, (with his dear arms about me as
we walked,) he sung me the following verses; of which he afterwards
favoured me with a copy: I.

"And then you have added so much to it yourself, you are always buying
books."

And then, with a slight bow, turned again into the plantation, and was
soon out of sight.

And then when we came away it was such fun!

And then we were so merry all the way home!

And then," said she, "if that very improbable event should ever take
place, I shall merely be able to tell what Bingley may tell in a much
more agreeable manner himself.

And then when you go away, you may leave one or two of my sisters
behind you; and I dare say I shall get husbands for them before the
winter is over.

And then, you know, when once they get together, there is no end of
it.

And then, for fear all of his finery would not be displayed, he bared
his right arm, adorned with a golden arm-band and an ivory circlet
clasped with a plate of shining metal.

And then a woman, equally furious, spat out more spitefully still--"If
only some god would put Giton into my hands, what a fine time I would
give that runaway.

And then, besides himself, there is Tryphaena, a most charming woman,
travelling about here and there in search of pleasure.

And then, Lycas will be sure to want to visit a sick passenger, as
part of his duties!

And then--to bite a piece off an apple, and when you saw that Duphilus
was busy talking to Thraso, to lean forward and throw it right into
her lap, without caring whether I saw it or not; and she kissed it and
put it into her bosom under her girdle!

And then may chance thee to repent The time that thou has lost and
spent To cause thy lover's sigh and swoon: Then shalt thou know beauty
but lent, And wish and want as I have done.

And then is all the sorrow forth of remembrance That ever I had
a-forrow in luvis observance.

And then they likewise shall Their ruin have; For as yourselves your
empires fall, And every kingdom hath a grave.

And then at last our bliss Full and perfect is, But now begins; for
from this happy day Th'old Dragon under ground In straiter limits
bound, Not half so far casts his usurped sway, And wrath to see his
Kingdom fail, Swindges the scaly Horrour of his foulded tail.

And then I changed my pipings-- Singing how down the vale of Maenalus
I pursued a maiden, and clasp'd a reed: Gods and men, we are all
deluded thus!

And then she cast her arms along The golden barriers, And laid her
face between her hands, And wept.

And then we may proceed further to enquire whether that which suffers
dispersion is or is not of the nature of soul--our hopes and fears as
to our own souls will turn upon the answers to these questions.

And then he proceeds to ask of some one who is incredulous, whether a
man lasts longer, or the coat which is in use and wear; and when he is
answered that a man lasts far longer, thinks that he has thus
certainly demonstrated the survival of the man, who is the more
lasting, because the less lasting remains.

And then, one after the other, there came a series of incidents so
curious and so inexplicable that the very shrewdest people began to
feel uneasy.

And then M. Maniera again hears the voice in his right ear, saying,
this time, `Ha, ha!

And then I heard a voice say, `Mme.

And then?

And then he induced Mamma Valerius to indulge a queer whim of his.

And then came the lightning-flash of the gala performance: the heavens
torn asunder and an angel's voice heard upon earth for the delight of
mankind and the utter capture of his heart.

And then...and then there was that man's voice behind the door--"You
must love me!

And then they returned to terra firma, that is to say, to some passage
that led them to the little girls' dancing-school, where brats between
six and ten were practising their steps, in the hope of becoming great
dancers one day, "covered with diamonds...." Meanwhile, Christine gave
them sweets instead.

And then the voice began to sing the leading phrase, "Come!

And then, suddenly, I was silent, dazed by the light.

And then you saw Red Death stalking about at the last masked ball.

And then he crawled away like a snake, went into his room, closed the
door and left me alone to my reflections.

"And then how would you slip it into my pocket?"

And then, more gently: "Why do you cry?

And then there was the sound of a body falling on the floor and being
dragged along and a door slammed and then nothing, nothing more around
us save the scorching silence of the south in the heart of a tropical
forest!

And then, at last: "Oh, how thirsty I am!

And then I caught the pistol from him...and then I dragged myself on
my knees toward what I had seen.

And then, not withstanding the dissuasions of Rinuccini to the
contrary, it was to be kept secret from the world, though some of its
obligations were expected to be at once fulfilled, on their side, by
the Catholics.

And then was my neighbour, Pliable, discouraged, and would not venture
further.

And then I saw from that saying, "He that cometh to me shall never
hunger, and he that believeth on me shall never thirst", that
believing and coming was all one; and that he that came, that is, ran
out in his heart and affections after salvation by Christ, he indeed
believed in Christ.

And then, being hardened, they show themselves as they are.

And then taking with him the priests and Initiates and the Initiators,
and encompassing them with his soldiers, he conducted them with great
order and profound silence; an august and venerable procession,
wherein all who did not envy him said, he performed at once the office
of a high-priest and of a general.

And then he required him to choose a tenth part of all the treasure
and horses and captives that had fallen into their hands, before any
division should be made to others; besides which, he made him the
special present of a horse with trappings and ornaments, in honor of
his actions.

And then, as if it would not satisfy their hatred to destroy some by
hunger, and offer others to the mercy of a plague, they must proceed
to involve them also in a needless war of their own making, that no
calamity might be wanting to complete the punishment of the citizens
for refusing to submit to that of slavery to the rich.

And then their arms, which for their riches and beauty they wore with
pleasure, becoming light and easy to them with constant use, they
longed for nothing more than to try them with an enemy, and fight in
earnest.

And then he made after another squadron, who were just come into port,
and were hauling their vessels ashore, but fought from the decks, and
sorely galled Lucullus's men; there being neither room to sail round
them, nor to bear upon them for any damage, his ships being afloat,
while theirs stood secure and fixed on the sand.

And then that match was made, which, uniting his and Pompey's power,
had well-nigh ruined the Roman empire, and did destroy the
commonwealth.

And then the senate met, to pass a decree that the people should
change their dress as in time of public sorrow.

And then, perceiving that the senate, dissatisfied with his
proceedings, began to cast their eyes abroad upon Brutus, and decreed
and confirmed the government of several provinces to him, he had taken
the alarm.

And thenceforward, he says, Parysatis watched her advantage against
Statira, and made up poison for her; not a very probable story, or a
very likely motive to account for her conduct, if indeed he means that
out of respect to Clearchus she dared to attempt the life of the
lawful queen, that was mother of those who were heirs of the empire.

And then he seemed a moderate and gracious governor, more especially
as compared to his son Ochus, who outdid all his predecessors in
blood-thirstiness and cruelty.

And then look at yourselves, mark the numbers and efficiency of the
heavy infantry marching in your ranks, and do not give way too much to
despondency, but reflect that you are yourselves at once a city
wherever you sit down, and that there is no other in Sicily that could
easily resist your attack, or expel you when once established.

And then another savage face appeared, and a third and fourth and
fifth, craning their necks over the shoulders of their fellows whom
they could not pass upon the narrow ledge.

And then something gave, there was a momentary feeling of nausea, a
sharp click as of the snapping of a steel wire, and I stood with my
back against the wall of the cave facing my unknown foe.

And then the moonlight flooded the cave, and there before me lay my
own body as it had been lying all these hours, with the eyes staring
toward the open ledge and the hands resting limply upon the ground.

And then she was dragged out of my sight into the depths of the
deserted edifice.

And then it struck me suddenly that I was very anxious that she should
believe me.

And then commenced a train of thought quite new to me.

And then a light flashed out upon the darkness of the tower chamber,
and there stood Sarkoja, her gleaming, baleful eyes fixed in a frenzy
of loathing and contempt upon my mother.

And then I told him my story as I have written it here, omitting only
any reference to my love for Dejah Thoris.

And then a living mass of destruction sprang from the surrounding
darkness full upon the creature that held me pinioned to the ground.

And then either hypocritically rebuke me for mocking, or foolishly
take part in the supposed mockery!

And then, adds M. Dunoyer, if the State owes instruction to everybody,
it will soon be maintained that it owes labor; then lodging; then
shelter.

And then they are astonished that society is not moved by their
appeal!

And then, you ask, will these breeders of silk-worms, these
manufacturers of silks and hats, lose their work?

And then the series of accidents and coincidences - these were so very
extraordinary.

And then the brush was given, and then the tint was placed; and, for
one moment, the painter stood entranced before the work which he had
wrought; but in the next, while he yet gazed, he grew tremulous and
very pallid, and aghast, and crying with a loud voice, 'This is indeed
Life itself!

And then that dromedary touch -- do you take me for a fool?

And then down we came with a sweep, a slide, and a plunge, that made
me feel sick and dizzy, as if I was falling from some lofty mountain-
top in a dream.

And then came, as if to my final and irrevocable overthrow, the spirit
of PERVERSENESS.

And then the music ceased, as I have told; and the evolutions of the
waltzers were quieted; and there was an uneasy cessation of all things
as before.

And then my vision fell upon the seven tall candles upon the table.

And then there stole into my fancy, like a rich musical note, the
thought of what sweet rest there must be in the grave.

And then I fell suddenly calm, and lay smiling at the glittering
death, as a child at some rare bauble.

And then the stately grace of the clean, delicately -- granulated
columnar stems, the largest four feet in diameter, at twenty from the
ground.

And then his dogged and meaningless imitation of my gait, my voice, my
habits, and my manner!

And then I scrutinized, with a minute scrutiny, the forms, and the
methods, and the leading traits of his impertinent supervision.

And then, when I had made an opening sufficient for my head, I put in
a dark lantern, all closed, closed, that no light shone out, and then
I thrust in my head.

And then - then all is mystery and terror, and a tale which should not
be told.

And then, lastly, the voluminous cloud uprose, and, abandoning the
tops of the mountains to the dimness of old, fell back into the
regions of Hesper, and took away all its manifold golden and gorgeous
glories from the Valley of the Many-Colored Grass.

And then I peered into the large eves of Ligeia.

And then -- then, when poring over forbidden pages, I felt a forbidden
spirit enkindling within me -- would Morella place her cold hand upon
my own, and rake up from the ashes of a dead philosophy some low,
singular words, whose strange meaning burned themselves in upon my
memory.

And then, hour after hour, would I linger by her side, and dwell upon
the music of her voice, until at length its melody was tainted with
terror, and there fell a shadow upon my soul, and I grew pale, and
shuddered inwardly at those too unearthly tones.

And then she adverted, with a blush, to the extreme recency of this
date.

"And then," said a tall man just opposite, "we had here, not long ago,
a person who had taken it into his head that he was a donkey -- which
allegorically speaking, you will say, was quite true."

And then," said a cadaverous looking personage, near the foot of the
table, taking up the thread of the conversation where it had been
broken off, -- "and then, among other oddities, we had a patient, once
upon a time, who very pertinaciously maintained himself to be a
Cordova cheese, and went about, with a knife in his hand, soliciting
his friends to try a small slice from the middle of his leg.

And then there was an ignoramus," said he, "who mistook himself for a
frog, which, by the way, he resembled in no little degree.

And then," said somebody else, "then there was Petit Gaillard, who
thought himself a pinch of snuff, and was truly distressed because he
could not take himself between his own finger and thumb.

"And then there was Jules Desoulieres, who was a very singular genius,
indeed, and went mad with the idea that he was a pumpkin."

"And then," said some other one of the party, -- "then there was
Bouffon Le Grand -- another extraordinary personage in his way."

And then," said the friend who had whispered, "there was Boullard, the
tee-totum.

And then, perhaps, this Clos de Vougeot is a little heady, you know --
a little strong -- you understand, eh?

And then, again, the frog-man croaked away as if the salvation of his
soul depended upon every note that he uttered.

And then there was 'The Diary of a Late Physician,' where the merit
lay in good rant, and indifferent Greek -- both of them taking things
with the public.

And then there was 'The Man in the Bell,' a paper by-the-by, Miss
Zenobia, which I cannot sufficiently recommend to your attention.

And then again the sweet recollection of better and earlier times came
over me, and I thought of that happy period when the world was not all
a desert, and Pompey not altogether cruel.

And then did we, the seven, start from our seats in horror, and stand
trembling, and shuddering, and aghast, for the tones in the voice of
the shadow were not the tones of any one being, but of a multitude of
beings, and, varying in their cadences from syllable to syllable fell
duskly upon our ears in the well-remembered and familiar accents of
many thousand departed friends.

And then what if he did not?

And then ounly percave the cuteness of the swate angel, for no sooner
did she obsarve that I was afther the squazing of her flipper, than
she up wid it in a jiffy, and put it away behind her back, jist as
much as to say, "Now thin, Sir Pathrick O'Grandison, there's a bitther
chance for ye, mavourneen, for it's not altogether the gentaal thing
to be afther the squazing of my flipper right full in the sight of
that little furrenner Frinchman, Mounseer Maiter-di-dauns.

And then, perchance Arise together, Lalage, and roam The starry and
quiet dwellings of the blest, And still- _ Lal_.

And then Maimie went and spoiled everything.

And then I do not see that I am benefited by the sale.

And then,-- if it must be said,--however different your language is
from mine, we believe in the same principles; you share all my
opinions.

And then, at the highest pitch of your enthusiasm, you shouted: "Yes,
if to put an end to this hateful system, it should become necessary
for me to shed the last drop of my blood, I would joyfully spring into
the gap, asking only time enough to give thanks to God for having
judged me worthy of martyrdom!

And then, if M. Thiers is so well assured of the intentions of the
government, why does he not wish the forts to be built before the
circuit is extended?

And then, as usual, he dreamed that HE was a princeling himself.

And then the lower line tables and the tables of the third line.

--And then the voice of God was heard in that garden, calling His
creature man to account: and Michael, prince of the heavenly host,
with a sword of flame in his hand, appeared before the guilty pair and
drove them forth from Eden into the world, the world of sickness and
striving, of cruelty and disappointment, of labour and hardship, to
earn their bread in the sweat of their brow.

And then, filled with love for men, He went forth and called to men to
hear the new gospel.

And then imagine this sickening stench, multiplied a millionfold and a
millionfold again from the millions upon millions of fetid carcasses
massed together in the reeking darkness, a huge and rotting human
fungus.

And then?

And then?

And then you were surprised because she threw your slippers at you!

And then suddenly light had come.

And then another voice in the group was heard to say, "We must hush it
up.

And then Mr. Spillikins checked himself, for he noticed--this was on
the verandah in the morning--that Norah had a hat and jacket on and
that the motor was rolling towards the door.

And then, a voice called from the drawing-room within, in a measured
and assured tone, "Peter, darling, where are you?

And then, without waiting for a reply: "Miss Sally, she sick in bed,
en Mars John, he bleedzd ter go in de country, en dey tuck'n sont me.

And then, again, to make the wisest of men say that nothing in his
opinion is more glorious than When the tables are full of bread and
meat, and the cup-bearer carries round wine which he draws from the
bowl and pours into the cups, is it fit or conducive to temperance for
a young man to hear such words?

And then he told him to go away and not to provoke him, if he intended
to get home unscathed.

And then, I said, we must try them with enchantments that is the third
sort of test--and see what will be their behaviour: like those who
take colts amid noise and tumult to see if they are of a timid nature,
so must we take our youth amid terrors of some kind, and again pass
them into pleasures, and prove them more thoroughly than gold is
proved in the furnace, that we may discover whether they are armed
against all enchantments, and of a noble bearing always, good
guardians of themselves and of the music which they have learned, and
retaining under all circumstances a rhythmical and harmonious nature,
such as will be most serviceable to the individual and to the State.

And then one, seeing another grow rich, seeks to rival him, and thus
the great mass of the citizens become lovers of money.

And then democracy comes into being after the poor have conquered
their opponents, slaughtering some and banishing some, while to the
remainder they give an equal share of freedom and power; and this is
the form of government in which the magistrates are commonly elected
by lot.

And then, again, after the old desires have been driven out, fresh
ones spring up, which are akin to them, and because he, their father,
does not know how to educate them, wax fierce and numerous.

And then, although they may have no desire of change, the others
charge them with plotting against the people and being friends of
oligarchy?

And then he got into the company of a more refined, licentious sort of
people, and taking to all their wanton ways rushed into the opposite
extreme from an abhorrence of his father's meanness.

And then, is this the only thing?

And then, for some unknown reason, these same men had condemned her to
hard labour, though she was innocent of the charge laid against her.

And then we send him, at the public expense, from the Moscow to the
Irkoutsk Government, in company with the most depraved of men.

And then, as if wishing to tone down his question, he added, "I cannot
give you the permission without knowing why you require it.

And then, are you really acting according to your conscience, or are
you acting in order to be admired of men?

And then at the forester's.

And then they were silent, and the tramping of the horses' feet along
the highroad was the only sound to be heard.

And then he suddenly remembered the prison, the shaved heads, the
cells, the disgusting smells, the chains, and, by the side of it all,
the madly lavish city lift of the rich, himself included.

And then, only fancy, the next day I hear--they let me know by
knocking at the wall--that Mitin is arrested.

And then the affair also proved the zeal of the Archdeacon, and so he
let the case proceed along the lines it had taken.

And then you must come into the office and sign," he added to the
convoy soldier, who had not left the convict for a moment.

And then it was so unnatural to execute such a child as Rozovsky.

And then Valdemar Simonson is quite an exceptional man.

"And then it will all come out?"

And then we got talking.

And then Mr. Jobson talks big about reporting his principal to the
Secretary of State for the Home Department, if it were not for his
particular regard and friendship for Mr. Inglewood and his family.

And then, as to Campbell's interest with Morris, I incline to suppose
that it must have been gained by playing upon his fears.

And then the other chield got up, and said, he caredna whether Morris
was rubbed or no, provided it wasna to become a stain on ony
gentleman's honour and reputation, especially in the north of England;
for, said he before them, I come frae the north mysell, and I carena a
boddle wha kens it.

And then he's come o' guid kith and kin--My heart warms to the poor
thoughtless callant, Mr. Hammorgaw--and then the penny fee"-- In the
latter part of this instructive communication, Mr. Fairservice lowered
his voice to a tone better beseeming the conversation in a place of
public resort on a Sabbath evening, and his companion and he were soon
beyond my hearing.

And then he's sic an auld-farran lang-headed chield as never took up
the trade o' cateran in our time; mony a daft reik he has played--mair
than wad fill a book, and a queer ane it wad be--as gude as Robin
Hood, or William Wallace--a' fu' o' venturesome deeds and escapes, sic
as folk tell ower at a winter ingle in the daft days.

And then Queen Anne, that's dead, gae the chiefs bits o' pensions, sae
they had wherewith to support their gillies and caterans that work nae
wark, as I said afore; and they lay by quiet eneugh, saying some
spreagherie on the Lowlands, whilk is their use and wont, and some
cutting o' thrapples amang themsells, that nae civilised body kens or
cares onything anent.--Weel, but there's a new warld come up wi' this
King George (I say, God bless him, for ane)--there's neither like to
be siller nor pensions gaun amang them; they haena the means o'
mainteening the clans that eat them up, as ye may guess frae what I
said before; their credit's gane in the Lowlands; and a man that can
whistle ye up a thousand or feifteen hundred linking lads to do his
will, wad hardly get fifty punds on his band at the Cross o' Glasgow--
This canna stand lang-- there will be an outbreak for the Stuarts--
there will be an outbreak-- they will come down on the low country
like a flood, as they did in the waefu' wars o' Montrose, and that
will be seen and heard tell o' ere a twalmonth gangs round.

And then there's sodgers, puir things, hoyed out frae the garrison at
a' body's bidding--Puir Rob will hae his hands fu' by the time the sun
comes ower the hill.

And then you could come, and any one else you would like asked.

And then, after a few soft, impromptu chords; the theme changed.

And then to have lost her!

And then came the time when she shot up rapidly into young womanhood
and their eyes were on a level and their ages seemed the same.

And then came- -Flower;--and complications.

And then, our circumstances were so much alike,--both orphans, and
well off; responsible to no one for our actions; with heaps of mutual
friends, and constantly staying at the same houses.

And then--oh, Deryck!

And then he had laughingly declared his intention of getting up a
"best party" of his own, with the duchess as chaperon; and she had
promised to make one of it.

And then far away in the distance, along the white ribbon of road,
winding up from the valley, she saw a high gig, trotting swiftly; one
man in it, and a small groom seated behind.

And then, as Simpson coughed tactfully behind his hand, and nudged her
very obviously with his elbow, she added, as a sympathetic after-
thought: "For, though a homey face may indeed be redeemed by its
kindly expression, you cannot very well explain expression to the
blind.

And then, noting that he had dozed off while we carried him, added:
'And he will have done with beds, poor chap, before I need it.

And then surprise and emotion silenced him.

And then the meals--" "What!

And then, instead of comforting me, you leave me entirely in the
wrong, and completely in the lurch.

And then, suddenly; she fell upon her knees before the picture.

And then she recalled the old line of cruel reasoning: "It was not the
sort of face one would have wanted to see always in front of one at
table.

And then, in the curious way in which inspired words will sometimes
occur to the mind quite apart from their inspired context, and bearing
a totally different meaning from that which they primarily bear, these
words came to Jane: "For He is our peace, Who hath made both one, and
hath broken down the middle wall of partition between us .

And then when all was satisfactorily settled, we could pack them off
home, and be by ourselves again.

And then a theme I had never heard crept in, and caught my ear at
once, because it was quite new to me, and so marvellously sweet.

And then, to my joy, you began to sing.

And then I got the theme for life fading, and what one feels when the
glorious noon is suddenly plunged into darkness; and then the prayer.

And then, I HEARD a vision of heaven, where evening shadows never
fall: And after that came the end; just certainty, and worship, and
peace.

And then there was Leonard Boyce.

And then again this evening, sir," continued Marigold, slipping me
into my pyjama jacket, "as I was starting the Major's car, who should
be waiting there for him but Mr.

And then I remembered taking you up to hear that damnable slander, and
I felt that I had a share in it, as far as you were concerned, and I
longed to get at you somehow and tell you about it.

And then comes catastrophe; in this case not to the woman.

And then the good, heart-wrung little man, who had been beating about
the bush for half an hour, came straight to the point.

And then she burst out disconcertingly: "Do you think he has gone off
with that dreadful little Gedge girl?

And then, of course, there was the hospital which, in one way or
another, took up a good deal of my time.

And then all of both had been swept ruthlessly away down the gory
draught of sacrifice.

And then as the insistence of his great figure towering over me had
begun to fret my nerves--"Sit down, man," said I, with an impatient
gesture, "and put that sickening toy away and come to the point.

And then, stretch as I would, I could not reach far enough to apply
the match to the end of the cigarette between his lips.

"And then," said Sir Anthony, "it's that poor dear old lady that I've
been thinking of."

And then there were Boyce's half confessions, the glimpses he had
afforded me into the tormented soul.

And then--women are women and can't help themselves--the old word--by
George, sir, she spat it at me from a festering sore in her very soul
--the old word would have rankled all the time, and some stupid
quarrel having arisen, she would have spat it at me again.

And then took place a scene which it is beyond my power to describe.

And then--Meredyth--this is what she said: "'You swear to marry me?

And then, far away in the sea, I remembered Ulster, and there came on
me an instant, uncontrollable anguish to be there.

"And then?"

And then she went away well satisfied with her revenge, and returned
to her own people in the Shi.

And then to Becfola.

And then, in Lochlann, at the battle of Cnocha your father and I met
at last, foot to foot, eye to eye, and there, Fionn!

And then they joined hands and danced joyfully around their father,
and they sang a song, the first line of which is: "Fionn thinks he is
safe.

And then she stared fiercely at Fionn.

And then turning to the magicians: "Let one magician of the magicians
tell me what is hidden in the bags that are lying across the back of
my cow.

And then as two green-ridged, white-topped, broad-swung, overwhelming,
vehement billows of the deep, they met and crashed and sunk into and
rolled away from each other; and the noise of these two waves was as
the roar of all ocean when the howl of the tempest is drowned in the
league-long fury of the surge.

And then mac an Da'v began to sneeze, for he didn't know what for.

And then the king cried out in dismay: "I have beaten Tibraide''s
people.

And then he sent a message to say that he loved her so much that he
would certainly burst of love if it did not stop.

And then she diluted the compliment by adding, "But it's powerful
seldom you're a mind to, I'm bound to say.

And then he added: "Now you whisper it to me--just the same.

And then there came, mingling with his half- formed dreams, a most
melancholy caterwauling.

And then it was discomforting to see Huck eying Joe's preparations so
wistfully, and keeping up such an ominous silence.

And then you'll out with the pipes, and we'll light up just as ca'm,
and then just see 'em look!

"And then--and then--well I won't be certain, but it seems like as if
you made Sid go and--and--" "Well?"

"And then you began to cry."

And then--" "Then Mrs. Harper she began to cry, and said Joe was just
the same, and she wished she hadn't whipped him for taking cream when
she'd throwed it out her own self--" "Tom!

"And then there was a whole lot of talk 'bout dragging the river for
us, and 'bout having the funeral Sunday, and then you and old Miss
Harper hugged and cried, and she went."

And then what?

And then her own work in the matter, which should have culminated at
one o'clock in Lord Grenville's dining-room, when the relentless agent
of the French Government would finally learn who was this mysterious
Scarlet Pimpernel, who so openly defied an army of spies and placed
himself so boldly, and for mere sport, on the side of the enemies of
France.

And then what would happen?

And then if that little real estate deal I've got on goes through,
we'll get married," he said with a great show of earnestness, the
while he took his place before the mirror and began brushing his hair.

And then what a happiness would it have been could Hester Prynne have
heard her clear, bird-like voice mingling with the uproar of other
childish voices, and have distinguished and unravelled her own
darling's tones, amid all the entangled outcry of a group of sportive
children.

And then after a moment or two: "Suppose I'm nabbed.

"And then you thought you would get more money by coming to London, I
suppose?"

And then, louder still, the words floated down to him: "This is a
terrible house.

And then she looks up at the clock, and 'Hurry up,' she says.

And then suddenly things seemed to change.

And then I got a bogus note from Tuppence--and I knew!

And then sitting down again, she very soon forgot that there were any
such things in the room.

And then to turn the discourse, she began admiring the house and the
furniture.

And then rising, she went away to join Marianne, whom she found, as
she expected, in her own room, leaning, in silent misery, over the
small remains of a fire, which, till Elinor's entrance, had been her
only light.

And then I have made a little purchase within this half year; East
Kingham Farm, you must remember the place, where old Gibson used to
live.

And then lowering her voice, "I suppose Mrs. Jennings has heard all
about it.

And then, again, let as look at the present position of American women
in society.

And then I clasped my hands and looked around-- --But none was near to
mock my streaming eyes, Which poured their warm drops on the sunny
ground-- _30 So without shame I spake:--'I will be wise, And just, and
free, and mild, if in me lies Such power, for I grow weary to behold
The selfish and the strong still tyrannise Without reproach or check.

And then the night-wind steaming from the shore, _1405 Sent odours
dying sweet across the sea, And the swift boat the little waves which
bore, Were cut by its keen keel, though slantingly; Soon I could hear
the leaves sigh, and could see The myrtle-blossoms starring the dim
grove, _1410 As past the pebbly beach the boat did flee On sidelong
wing, into a silent cove, Where ebon pines a shade under the starlight
wove.

And then she spurned the loaves with her pale feet, Towards her
bloodless guests;--that sight to meet, Mine eyes and my heart ached,
and but that she Who loved me, did with absent looks defeat _2800
Despair, I might have raved in sympathy; But now I took the food that
woman offered me; 53.

And then,' she said, 'he laid me in a cave Above the waters, by that
chasm of sea, _2930 A fountain round and vast, in which the wave
Imprisoned, boiled and leaped perpetually, Down which, one moment
resting, he did flee, Winning the adverse depth; that spacious cell
Like an hupaithric temple wide and high, _2935 Whose aery dome is
inaccessible, Was pierced with one round cleft through which the
sunbeams fell.

And then to you this night Laon will I betray.

And then she wept aloud, and in her arms Clasped that bright Shape,
less marvellously fair Than her own human hues and living charms;
_4650 Which, as she leaned in passion's silence there, Breathed warmth
on the cold bosom of the air, Which seemed to blush and tremble with
delight; The glossy darkness of her streaming hair Fell o'er that
snowy child, and wrapped from sight _4655 The fond and long embrace
which did their hearts unite.

And then these thoughts would at the least be fled; Let us not fear
such pain can vex the dead.

And then I said, 'Panthea, look on me.

And then, that I might strike him dumb with shame, I spoke of my
wife's dowry; but he coined A brief yet specious tale, how I had
wasted The sum in secret riot; and he saw _320 My wife was touched,
and he went smiling forth.

And then he laughed.

And then we'll talk;--what shall we talk about?

And then it winnowed the Elysian air Which ever hung about that lady
bright, With its aethereal vans--and speeding there, Like a star up
the torrent of the night, Or a swift eagle in the morning glare _405
Breasting the whirlwind with impetuous flight, The pinnace, oared by
those enchanted wings, Clove the fierce streams towards their upper
springs.

And then she called out of the hollow turrets Of those high clouds,
white, golden and vermilion, The armies of her ministering spirits--
In mighty legions, million after million, _460 They came, each troop
emblazoning its merits On meteor flags; and many a proud pavilion Of
the intertexture of the atmosphere They pitched upon the plain of the
calm mere.

And then the Witch would let them take no ill: Of many thousand
schemes which lovers find, The Witch found one,--and so they took
their fill Of happiness in marriage warm and kind.

And then my little grandchildren, the gibbets, Promising children as
you ever saw,-- The young playing at hanging, the elder learning How
to hold radicals.

And then a small still voice, thus-- SEMICHORUS 2: For Revenge and
Wrong bring forth their kind, The foul cubs like their parents are,
_730 Their den is in the guilty mind, And Conscience feeds them with
despair.

And then he pointed to a company, 'Midst whom I quickly recognized the
heirs Of Caesar's crime, from him to Constantine; The anarch chiefs,
whose force and murderous snares _285 Had founded many a sceptre-
bearing line, And spread the plague of gold and blood abroad: And
Gregory and John, and men divine, Who rose like shadows between man
and God; Till that eclipse, still hanging over heaven, _290 Was
worshipped by the world o'er which they strode, For the true sun it
quenched--'Their power was given But to destroy,' replied the
leader:--'I Am one of those who have created, even 'If it be but a
world of agony.

And then the shadow of thy coming fell On Saxon Alfred's olive-
cinctured brow: And many a warrior-peopled citadel.

And then he struck from forth the strings a sound Of deep and fearful
melody.

And then A bridesmaid went,--and ere she came again A silence fell
upon the guests--a pause _135 Of expectation, as when beauty awes All
hearts with its approach, though unbeheld; Then wonder, and then fear
that wonder quelled;-- For whispers passed from mouth to ear which
drew The colour from the hearer's cheeks, and flew _140 Louder and
swifter round the company; And then Gherardi entered with an eye Of
ostentatious trouble, and a crowd Surrounded him, and some were
weeping loud.

And then the mourning women came.-- _195 ...

And then I thought I saw, but dare not speak _270 With certainty of
such a wondrous thing, A child, who could not have been born a week,
Those fair-horned cattle closely following, And in his hand he held a
polished stick: And, as on purpose, he walked wavering _275 From one
side to the other of the road, And with his face opposed the steps he
trod.

And then Apollo with the plectrum strook _670 The chords, and from
beneath his hands a crash Of mighty sounds rushed up, whose music
shook The soul with sweetness, and like an adept His sweeter voice a
just accordance kept.

... And thenceforth shall so firm an amity 'Twixt thee and me be, that
neither Fortune, The monstrous phantom which pursues success, _180
That careful miser, that free prodigal, Who ever alternates, with
changeful hand, Evil and good, reproach and fame; nor Time, That
lodestar of the ages, to whose beam The winged years speed o'er the
intervals _185 Of their unequal revolutions; nor Heaven itself, whose
beautiful bright stars Rule and adorn the world, can ever make The
least division between thee and me, Since now I find a refuge in thy
favour.

And then to St. James's Court he went, _15 And St. Paul's Church he
took on his way; He was mighty thick with every Saint, Though they
were formal and he was gay.

And then followed a couple of minutes of heart-breaking excitement
such as I cannot hope to describe.

And then the whole scene, down to our final escape, repeated itself,
only not quite so violently.

And then ourselves--three modern Englishmen in a modern English boat--
seeming to jar upon and look out of tone with that measureless
desolation; and in front of us the noble buck limned out upon a
background of ruddy sky.

And then followed an extraordinary scene indeed.

And then all of a sudden there was a flash of cold steel, and a great
spear was held against my throat, and behind it other spears gleamed
cruelly.

And then, turning to Leo with a look of the most utter tenderness that
I ever saw upon the face of a woman, civilised or savage, she took his
head between her hands, and kissed him on the forehead as a mother
might.

And then slowly, and with infinite labour and struggling, the wolves
bore the lion down.

"And then what do you do?"

And then, without waiting for an answer, he turned and walked to his
litter, and in ten minutes from that time we were all well under way.

And then, reflecting that at the present moment there was far more
likelihood of our earthly careers being cut exceedingly short than of
their being unduly prolonged, I at last managed to get to sleep, a
fact for which anybody who reads this narrative, if anybody ever does,
may very probably be thankful.

And then what will it avail that I have lived a little longer, holding
off death by the knowledge that I have wrung from Nature, since at
last I too must die?

And then, with a sudden change of tone and manner-- "Hast thou seen
enough, my stranger guest, or shall I show thee more of the wonders of
these tombs that are my palace halls?

And then Ustane crept past her on her hands and knees, and went.

And then--think of it still, oh Holly, for never shalt thou hear such
another tale, or see such another scene, nay, not even if I give thee
ten thousand years of life--and thou shalt have it in payment if thou
wilt--think: at last my deliverer came--he for whom I had watched and
waited through the generations--at the appointed time he came to seek
me, as I knew that he must come, for my wisdom could not err, though I
knew not when or how.

And then at last I see him, and behold, my chance is gone but by a
hair's breadth even before I have it, for he is in the very jaws of
death, whence no power of mine can draw him.

And then thou gavest him the medicine, and that five minutes dragged
long before I knew if he would live or die, and I tell thee that all
the sixty generations that are gone were not so long as that five
minutes.

And then I think I saw the most tremendous exhibition of moral courage
and intrepidity that it is possible to conceive.

And then, with one of those extraordinary transitions of which I have
already spoken, she again threw off her veil, and broke out, after the
ancient and poetic fashion of the dwellers in Arabia,[*] into a pæan
of triumph or epithalamium, which, wild and beautiful as it was, is
exceedingly difficult to render into English, and ought by rights to
be sung to the music of a cantata, rather than written and read.

And then, for the rest, when had such a chance ever come to a man
before as that which now lay in Leo's hand?

And then a great fury filled me, and made me mad, and I seized the
javelin that thou didst bear, and stabbed thee, so that there, at my
very feet, in the place of Life, thou didst groan and go down into
death.

And then, as before, the light went out like a lamp.

And then he turned and went, and with him went the tall and sullen-
looking bearers, and that was the last that we saw of the Amahagger.

And then, so it seems, I have fallen asleep myself, I who wanted to
guard your sleep.

And then the maiden arose.

And then there were apple pies, and peach pies, and pumpkin pies;
besides slices of ham and smoked beef; and moreover delectable dishes
of preserved plums, and peaches, and pears, and quinces; not to
mention broiled shad and roasted chickens; together with bowls of milk
and cream, all mingled higgledy- piggledy, pretty much as I have
enumerated them, with the motherly teapot sending up its clouds of
vapor from the midst-- Heaven bless the mark!

And then leaped in, but there no warrant had.

And then the big boys,--the hulking Lawrences; the lazy Neills, unfa-
thered sons of mother and daughter; Hickman, with a stoop in his
shoulders; and the rest.

And then he said slowly: "Let a white man touch me, and he dies; I
don't boast this,--I don't say it around loud, or before the children,
--but I mean it.

And then one night the little feet pattered wearily to the wee white
bed, and the tiny hands trembled; and a warm flushed face tossed on
the pillow, and we knew baby was sick.

And then all helplessly we peered into those Other-worlds, and wailed,
"O World of Worlds, how shall man make you one?

And then from that Vision Splendid all the glory faded slowly away,
and left an earth gray and stern rolling on beneath a dark despair.

And then he asked the shy little waitress, "Well, Jennie, how's your
John?

And then he mused and dreamed, and planned a life-work; and the train
flew south.

And then the fierce, buried anger surged up into his throat.

And then they taught him to sing, and when once the glory of the
Jubilee songs passed into the soul of George L. White, he knew his
life-work was to let those Negroes sing to the world as they had sung
to him.

And then with Mr. Creed and two friends of his (my late landlord
Jones' son one of them), to an ordinary to dinner, and then Creed and
I to Whitefriars' to the Play-house, and saw "The Mad Lover," the
first time I ever saw it acted, which I like pretty well, and home.

And then he kisseth the King's hand, and rises and stands covered
before the king.

And then we took boat to Woolwich, where we staid and gave order for
the fitting out of some more ships presently.

And then to Deptford, where we staid and did the same; and so took
barge again, and were overtaken by the King in his barge, he having
been down the river with his yacht this day for pleasure to try it;
and, as I hear, Commissioner Pett's do prove better than the Dutch
one, and that that his brother built.

And then I went away by water to the office, and there staid till it
was late.

And then to my Lady, who do shew my wife and me the greatest favour in
the world, in which I take great content.

And then home, and prepared to go to Walthamstow to-morrow.

And thence home, calling by the way to see Sir Robert Slingsby, who
continues ill, and so home.

And then to dinner, and got Mr. Pett the Commissioner to dinner with
me, he and I alone, my wife not being well, and so after dinner
parted.

And thence he took me to a dancing school in Fleet Street, where we
saw a company of pretty girls dance, but I do not in myself like to
have young girls exposed to so much vanity.

And then I left my wife to go home by coach, and I walked to the
Temple about my law business, and there received a subpoena for T.
Trice.

And then came my brother Tom, and staid and talked with me, and I hope
he will do very well and get money.

And thence to the Wardrobe with my Lady's, and there could not stay
dinner, but went by promise to Mr. Savill's, and there sat the first
time for my picture in little, which pleaseth me well.

And thence to buy a pair of stands and a hanging shelf for my wife's
chamber, and so home, and thither came Mr. Savill with the pictures,
and we hung them up in our dining-room.

And then met the ladies, and were showed the whole house by Mr.
Marriott; which is indeed nobly furnished, particularly the Queen's
bed, given her by the States of Holland; a looking-glass sent by the
Queen-mother from France, hanging in the Queen's chamber, and many
brave pictures.

And then the King came down and offered, and took the sacrament upon
his knees; a sight very well worth seeing.

And then her brother came to see her, and he being gone she told me
that she believed he was married and had a wife worth L500 to him, and
did inquire how he might dispose the money to the best advantage, but
I forbore to advise her till she could certainly tell me how things
are with him, being loth to meddle too soon with him.

And then to see in what pomp his table was laid for himself to go to
dinner; and here, among other pictures, saw the so much desired by me
picture of my Lady Castlemaine, which is a most blessed picture; and
that that I must have a copy of.

And then great plots are talked to be discovered, and all the prisons
in town full of ordinary people, taken from their meeting-places last
Sunday.

And thence he and I in his coach, against my will (for I am resolved
to shun too great fellowship with him) to White Hall, but came too
late, the Duke having been with our fellow officers before we came,
for which I was sorry.

And then his precept, which he, in vain- glory, said he had drawn up
himself, and hath printed it, against coachmen and carrmen affronting
of the gentry in the street; it is drawn so like a fool, and some
faults were openly found in it, that I believe he will have so much
wit as not to proceed upon it though it be printed.

And then in the evening walked in the garden, where we conjured him to
look after the yard, and for the time to come that he would take the
whole faults and ill management of the yard upon himself, he having
full power and our concurrence to suspend or do anything else that he
thinks fit to keep people and officers to their duty.

And then to the publique management of business: it is done, as he
observes, so loosely and so carelessly, that the kingdom can never be
happy with it, every man looking after himself, and his owne lust and
luxury; among other things he instanced in the business of money, he
do believe that half of what money the Parliament gives the King is
not so much as gathered.

And then the people come with sledges upon the ice, with snow at the
bottome, and lay the fish in and cover them with snow, and so carry
them to market.

And thence to Somerset House; and there into the chappell, where
Monsieur d'Espagne used to preach.

And then I rose and up, leaving my wife in bed, and to my brother's,
where I set them on cleaning the house, and my wife coming anon to
look after things, I up and down to my cozen Stradwicke's and uncle
Fenner's about discoursing for the funeral, which I am resolved to put
off till Friday next.

And then up to the Duke, and was with him giving him an account how
matters go, and of the necessity there is of a power to presse seamen,
without which we cannot really raise men for this fleete of twelve
sayle, besides that it will assert the King's power of pressing, which
at present is somewhat doubted, and will make the Dutch believe that
we are in earnest.

And thence to Sir W. Batten's, whither Sir Richard Ford came, the
Sheriffe, who hath been at this fire all the while; and he tells me,
upon my question, that he and the Mayor were there, as it is their
dutys to be, not only to keep the peace, but they have power of
commanding the pulling down of any house or houses, to defend the
whole City.

And then I found my Lord Sandwich, his title under his armes is, "The
most noble and mighty Lord, Edward, Earl of Sandwich, &c." Sir Edward
Walker afterwards coming in, in discourse did say that there was none
of the families of princes in Christendom that do derive themselves so
high as Julius Caesar, nor so far by 1000 years, that can directly
prove their rise; only some in Germany do derive themselves from the
patrician familys of Rome, but that uncertainly; and, among other
things, did much inveigh against the writing of romances, that 500
years hence being wrote of matters in general, true as the romance of
Cleopatra, the world will not know which is the true and which the
false.

And thence I home and after dinner to the office, where Sir W. Rider
and Cutler come, and in dispute I very high with them against their
demands, I hope to no hurt to myself, for I was very plain with them
to the best of my reason.

And then to hear how like a passionate and ignorant asse Sir G.
Carteret did harangue upon the abuse of Tickets did make me mad almost
and yet was fain to hold my tongue.

And then called me in, and was very civil to me.

And then up and home, and there dressed myself, and by appointment to
Deptford, to Sir G. Carteret's, between six and seven o'clock, where I
found him and my Lady almost ready, and by and by went over to the
ferry, and took coach and six horses nobly for Dagenhams, himself and
lady and their little daughter, Louisonne, and myself in the coach;
where, when we come, we were bravely entertained and spent the day
most pleasantly with the young ladies, and I so merry as never more.

And then said such a one, "Yes, I will be true to the King.

And then did what I would with her, and I perceive she is come to be
very bad, and offers any thing, that it is dangerous to have to do
with her, nor will I see [her] any more a good while.

And then he fell to explain to me his manner of casting the draught of
water which a ship will draw before-hand: which is a secret the King
and all admire in him; and he is the first that hath come to any
certainty before-hand, of foretelling the draught of water of a ship
before she be launched.

And then in the business of fore-castles, which he did oppose, all the
world sees now the use of them for shelter of men.

And then about several stories of the basenesse of the King of
Spayne's being served with officers: they in Flanders having as good
common men as any Prince in the world, but the veriest cowards for the
officers, nay for the generall officers, as the Generall and
Lieutenant- generall, in the whole world.

And then again said that the only quality eminent in him was, that he
did persevere; and indeed he is a very drudge, and stands by the
King's business.

And then he begun to say what a great man Warcupp was, and something
else, and what was that but a great lyer; and told me a story, how at
table he did, they speaking about antipathys, say, that a rose
touching his skin any where, would make it rise and pimple; and, by
and by, the dessert coming, with roses upon it, the Duchesse bid him
try, and they did; but they rubbed and rubbed, but nothing would do in
the world, by which his lie was found at then.

And then for flowers, they are best seen in a little plat by
themselves; besides, their borders spoil the walks of another garden:
and then for fruit, the best way is to have walls built circularly one
within another, to the South, on purpose for fruit, and leave the
walking garden only for that use.

And then we did begin to discourse of the young gentlemen captains,
which he was very free with me in speaking his mind of the unruliness
of them; and what a losse the King hath of his old men, and now of
this Hannam, of the Resolution, if he be dead, and that there is but
few old sober men in the fleete, and if these few of the Flags that
are so should die, he fears some other gentlemen captains will get in,
and then what a council we shall have, God knows.

And then about nine o'clock to Mrs. Mercer's gate, where the fire and
boys expected us, and her son had provided abundance of serpents and
rockets; and there mighty merry (my Lady Pen and Pegg going thither
with us, and Nan Wright), till about twelve at night, flinging our
fireworks, and burning one another and the people over the way.

And then, speaking of the supplies which have been made to this
fleete, more than ever in all kinds to any, even that wherein the Duke
of Yorke himself was, "Well," says he, "if this will not do, I will
say, as Sir J. Falstaffe did to the Prince, 'Tell your father, that if
he do not like this let him kill the next Piercy himself,'"--["King
Henry IV.," Part I, act v., sc.

And then to Sir W. Batten's, and dined; and there hear that Sir W.
Rider says that the towne is full of the report of the wealth that is
in his house, and would be glad that his friends would provide for the
safety of their goods there.

And then to church again, and there was Mr. Frampton in the pulpit,
they cry up so much, a young man, and of a mighty ready tongue.

And thence I to the Excise Office about some tallies, and then to the
Exchange, where I did much business, and so home to dinner, and then
to the office, where busy all the afternoon till night, and then home
to supper, and after supper an hour reading to my wife and brother
something in Chaucer with great pleasure, and so to bed.

And then again my spendings this year have exceeded my spendings the
last by L644: my whole spendings last year being but L509; whereas
this year, it appears, I have spent L1154, which is a sum not fit to
be said that ever I should spend in one year, before I am master of a
better estate than I am.

And then he says, which I wonder at, that I should not in all this
time see, that Moorefields have houses two stories high in them, and
paved streets, the City having let leases for seven years, which he do
conclude will be very much to the hindering the building of the City;
but it was considered that the streets cannot be passable in London
till a whole street be built; and several that had got ground of the
City for charity, to build sheds on, had got the trick presently to
sell that for L60, which did not cost them L20 to put up; and so the
City, being very poor in stock, thought it as good to do it
themselves, and therefore let leases for seven years of the ground in
Moorefields; and a good deal of this money, thus advanced, hath been
employed for the enabling them to find some money for Commissioner
Taylor, and Sir W. Batten, towards the charge of "The Loyall London,"
or else, it is feared, it had never been paid.

And then there were other good cases, as of a woman that come to serve
a gentlewoman, and in three days run away, betimes in the morning,
with a great deal of plate and rings, and other good things.

And then I fell to gaze upon another pretty maid in a pew close to me,
and she on me; and I did go about to take her by the hand, which she
suffered a little and then withdrew.

And then to the garden, and there eat many grapes, and took some with
us and so away thence, exceeding well satisfied, though not to that
degree that, by my old esteem of the house, I ought and did expect to
have done, the situation of it not pleasing me.

And then to bed, and I lay in the trundle-bed, the girl being gone to
bed to my wife, and there lay in some disquiet all night, telling of
the clock till it was daylight.

And then rose and called W. Hewer, and he and I, with pails and a
sieve, did lock ourselves into the garden, and there gather all the
earth about the place into pails, and then sift those pails in one of
the summer-houses, just as they do for dyamonds in other parts of the
world; and there, to our great content, did with much trouble by nine
o'clock (and by the time we emptied several pails and could not find
one), we did make the last night's forty-five up seventy-nine: so that
we are come to about twenty or thirty of what I think the true number
should be; and perhaps within less; and of them I may reasonably think
that Mr. Gibson might lose some: so that I am pretty well satisfied
that my loss is not great, and do bless God that it is so well, [About
the year 1842, in removing the foundation of an old wall, adjoining a
mansion at Brampton, always considered the quondam residence of the
Pepys family, an iron pot, full of silver coins, was discovered, and
taken to the Earl of Sandwich, the owner of the house, in whose
possession they still remain.

And then to supper, and after supper he went away, and so I got the
girl to comb my head, and then to bed, my eyes bad.

And thence to Westminster Hall, where I met Fitzgerald; and with him
to a tavern, to consider of the instructions for Sir Thomas Allen,
against his going to Algiers; he and I being designed to go down to
Portsmouth by the Council's order, and by and by he and I went to the
Duke of York, who orders me to go down to-morrow morning.

And then we all up to the Duke of York, and there did our usual
business, and so I with J. Minnes home, and there finding my wife gone
to my aunt Wight's, to see her the first time after her coming to
town, and indeed the first time, I think, these two years (we having
been great strangers one to the other for a great while), I to them;
and there mighty kindly used, and had a barrel of oysters, and so to
look up and down their house, they having hung a room since I was
there, but with hangings not fit to be seen with mine, which I find
all come home to-night, and here staying an hour or two we home, and
there to supper and to bed.

And thence to White Hall, and there staid in Mr. Wren's chamber with
him, reading over my draught of a letter, which Mr. Gibson then
attended me with; and there he did like all, but doubted whether it
would be necessary for the Duke to write in so sharp a style to the
Office, as I had drawn it in; which I yield to him, to consider the
present posture of the times and the Duke of York and whether it were
not better to err on that hand than the other.

And thence heard at the Council-board the City, by their single
counsel Symson, and the company of Strangers Merchants, a debate the
business of water-baylage; a tax demanded upon all goods, by the City,
imported and exported: which these Merchants oppose, and demanding
leave to try the justice of the City's demand by a Quo Warranto, which
the City opposed, the Merchants did quite lay the City on their backs
with great triumph, the City's cause being apparently too weak: but
here I observed Mr. Gold, the merchant, to speak very well, and very
sharply, against the City.

And thence he carried me to Mr. Streeter's, the famous history-painter
over the way, whom I have often heard of, but did never see him
before; and there I found him, and Dr. Wren, and several Virtuosos,
looking upon the paintings which he is making for the new Theatre at
Oxford: and, indeed, they look as if they would be very fine, and the
rest think better than those of Rubens in the Banqueting-house at
White Hall, but I do not so fully think so.

And thence with them to Mrs. Gotier's, the Queen's tire-woman, for a
pair of locks for my wife; she is an oldish French woman, but with a
pretty hand as most I have seen; and so home, and to supper, W.
Batelier and W. Hewer with us, and so my cold being great, and greater
by my having left my coat at my tailor's to-night and come home in a
thinner that I borrowed there, I went to bed before them and slept
pretty well.

And then to talk of general matters, and, by and by, Sheres being
gone, my wife, and he, and I out, and I set him down at Temple Bar,
and myself and wife went down the Temple upon seeming business, only
to put him off, and just at the Temple gate I spied Deb.

And thence had another meeting with the Duke of York, at White Hall,
on yesterday's work, and made a good advance: and so, being called by
my wife, we to the Park, Mary Batelier, and a Dutch gentleman, a
friend of hers, being with us.

And then, suppose; You are a woman well endowed, And the only man with
whom the law and morality Permit you to have the marital relation Is
the very man that fills you with disgust Every time you think of it
while you think of it Every time you see him?

And then one night, Minerva, the poetess, Came to me in her trouble,
crying.

And then I slept the sleep without dreams Here on the hill by the
river.

And then I knew I was one of Life's fools, Whom only death would treat
as the equal Of other men, making me feel like a man.

And then your gift of wild roses, Set on the table to grace our
dinner.

And then, in a second, I spied the rattler-- The shutters wide in his
yellow eyes, The head of him arched, sunk back in the rings of him, A
circle of filth, the color of ashes, Or oak leaves bleached under
layers of leaves.

And then they arrested me as a witness, And I lost my train and staid
in Spoon River To wage my battle of life to the end.

And then your children--oh, what might they be?

And then: The bank collapsed.

And then my search for Rebecca, Finding her at last in Virginia, Two
children dead in the meanwhile.

And then, O night!

And then it sought to get through the ultimate walls with its head--
and not with its head only--into "the other world.

And then they disparaged all high hopes.

And then did cloud after cloud roll over the spirit, until at last
madness preached: "Everything perisheth, therefore everything
deserveth to perish!

And then talked Zarathustra in this wise to his exulting conscience:
Alone am I again, and like to be so, alone with the pure heaven, and
the open sea; and again is the afternoon around me.

And then it happened also,--and verily, it happened for the first
time!-- that his word blessed SELFISHNESS, the wholesome, healthy
selfishness, that springeth from the powerful soul:-- --From the
powerful soul, to which the high body appertaineth, the handsome,
triumphing, refreshing body, around which everything becometh a
mirror: --The pliant, persuasive body, the dancer, whose symbol and
epitome is the self-enjoying soul.

And then, finally, Mr. Diston persuaded Dean Drone to come, and as
soon as Mr. Smith and Alphonse saw him they landed him with a fried
flounder that even the apostles would have appreciated.

And then when Myra would go off duty and Miss Cleghorn, who was
sallow, would come on, the commercial men would be off again like
autumn leaves.

And then he would pass into details about the Hash-enders and the
resurrectos and technical things like that till it was thought a
wonder how he could know it.

And then after that they fell to talking of relics and traces of the
past, and Dr. Gallagher said that if Dean Drone would come round to
his house some night he would show him some Indian arrow heads that he
had dug up in his garden.

And then when Netley walked up to the head of the table and laid down
a cheque for a hundred dollars conditional on the fund reaching one
hundred thousand the room was in an uproar.

And then our thoughts must naturally wander to the formation and
creation of those mighty ships of the desert, that alone could have
brought us here, and by whose strength and incomprehensible powers of
endurance, only are we enabled to leave this desert behind.

"And then?"

And then both reason and right combine not merely to justify but to
require its repeal.

And then the latter will cost no blood, no precious life.

And then there are countless, quiet, everyday heroes of American who
sacrifice long and hard so their children will know a better life than
they've known; church and civic volunteers who help to feed, clothe,
nurse, and teach the needy; millions who've made our nation and our
nation's destiny so very special-unsung heroes who may not have
realized their own dreams themselves but then who reinvest those
dreams in their children.

And then came several years in which our military capability was
allowed to deteriorate to a very dangerous degree.

And then there are unsung heroes: single parents, couples, church and
civic volunteers.

And then Dr. Franklin began to share his deepest hopes and fears about
the outcome of their efforts, and this is what he said: "I have often
looked at that picture behind the President without being able to tell
whether it was a rising or setting Sun: But now at length I have the
happiness to know that it is a rising and not a setting Sun.

And then, along came these behemoths.

And then we need a long-term plan to keep the combustion going and to
guarantee our place in the world economy.

And then the bitch began to wag her tail back and forth in the snow
and gaze with lustful eyes at the mouth of the pack.

And then he saw me.

And then she cried because there was none to find it, for the thunder
was far away chasing the Eclipse, and all the gods lamented when They
saw her sorrow.

And then they knew that while they searched for Time, Time had gone
forth against their city and leaguered it with the years, and had
taken it while they were far away and enslaved their women and
children with the yoke of age.

And then began thy journey over the Waste of Nought, and thy dream
camel bore thee well when those of certain of thy fellow travellers
fell down in the Waste and were covered over by the silence and were
turned again to nought; and those travellers when their dream camels
fell, having nothing to carry them further over the Waste, were lost
beyond and never found the earth.

And then the man whom Tarzan had seen drop them there turned to sneak
from the room, but to his annoyance he found the exit barred by a
tall, gray-eyed stranger.

And then, as the others still hesitated to do so: "Come, I shall do it
myself if no other will," and he stepped forward toward the count.

And then he came most unexpectedly upon Rokoff and Paulvitch at a
moment when of all others the two might least appreciate his company.

And then he hurled the fellow from him with such force that Rokoff
lunged sprawling against the rail.

And then again, had I declared myself I should have robbed the woman I
love of the wealth and position that her marriage to Clayton will now
insure to her.

And then, did it not occur to you that once Miss Porter knew the truth
she would break her engagement with Clayton?

And then, as the men stood looking first at Tarzan and then at their
superior the ape-man did the one thing which was needed to erase the
last remnant of animosity which they might have felt for him.

And then the girl's mother gave him the clew, for when she addressed
her daughter she called her Hazel.

And then: "But I am not going to worry about it any longer; I am going
to find out where Mr. Caldwell is," and she motioned to a passing
steward.

And then a number of things happened, almost simultaneously--the lion
sprang from his ambush toward the retreating black--Tarzan cried out
in warning--and the black turned just in time to see Numa halted in
mid-flight by a slender strand of grass rope, the noosed end of which
had fallen cleanly about his neck.

And then the women came, and the children--eager, curious, and, at
sight of Tarzan, more questioning than ever.

And then, quite unexpectedly, that occurred which decided the question
without the necessity for further discussion.

And then they bound him--his hands behind his back and his feet
trussed up to meet them.

And then a muffled scream came from the cavernous mouth of the dark
hole beyond the sacrificial altar through which the priestess had
entered the temple.

And then in Monsieur Thuran's loss, if they are lost, you would suffer
a severe bereavement," he ventured.

And then the scar upon his forehead turned to a flaming band of
scarlet, a red mist floated before his eyes, and, with the awful roar
of the bull ape gone mad, he sprang like a huge lion into the midst of
the votaries.

And then a glance at the girl's white face determined him.

And then he spied Kala, who, returning from a search for food with her
young babe, was ignorant of the state of the mighty male's temper
until suddenly the shrill warnings of her fellows caused her to
scamper madly for safety.

And then Tublat went to Kerchak to urge him to use his authority with
Kala, and force her to give up little Tarzan, which was the name they
had given to the tiny Lord Greystoke, and which meant "White-Skin.

And then Tublat went mad.

And then Lord Greystoke wiped his greasy fingers upon his naked thighs
and took up the trail of Kulonga, the son of Mbonga, the king; while
in far-off London another Lord Greystoke, the younger brother of the
real Lord Greystoke's father, sent back his chops to the club's CHEF
because they were underdone, and when he had finished his repast he
dipped his finger-ends into a silver bowl of scented water and dried
them upon a piece of snowy damask.

And then Kerchak emitted the volleying challenge of his kind.

And then three things happened almost simultaneously.

And then he recalled the battle between this man and the great, black-
maned lion which he had witnessed a short time before, and he
commenced to feel more assurance.

And then Clayton saw an incredible thing.

And then he told her of his experiences with this strange creature--of
how twice the wild man had saved his life--of the wondrous strength,
and agility, and bravery--of the brown skin and the handsome face.

And then he was gone again into the swaying trees, following the high-
flung spoor which no other human eye could have detected, much less
translated.

And then Tarzan of the Apes did just what his first ancestor would
have done.

And then the cruiser had come.

And then a great wonderment arose in her heart--a mighty wave of
thankfulness and gratitude that though she had been in such terrible
danger, yet she was unharmed.

And then began for the French officer the most terrifying experience
which man can encounter upon earth--the reception of a white prisoner
into a village of African cannibals.

And then after a moment of thoughtful pause: "Possibly he joined his
own tribe--the men who attacked us.

And then in sudden brutality that was as unlike Clayton as courteous
consideration is unlike an ape, he blurted out: "When your forest god
left you he was doubtless hurrying to the feast.

And then in a flash it came to him--the man was a mute, possibly a
deaf mute.

And then Tarzan: Yes, rest.

And then he remembered the look on Tarzan's face when they had
discovered that the cabin was empty--such a look as the hunter sees in
the eyes of the wounded deer he has wantonly brought down.

And then our spades showed us that SOMETHING had been buried beneath
the corpse, for a hole had been there and it had been filled with
loose earth.

And then he spoke--a minute sooner or a minute later might have made
all the difference in the world to three lives --but chance stepped in
and pointed out to Clayton the psychological moment.

And then she told him all--told him the truth word by word, without
attempting to shield herself or condone her error.

And then, with respect to the present combat in Spain, the gratitude
which that country evinced to England after the French, by means of
English armies, had been expelled,-- gratitude evinced by discouraging
the trade of England on all occasions, and by offering up masses in
thanksgiving when the English heretics quitted the Spanish shores,--
ought now to induce England to exhaust and ruin herself, for the sake
of hunting Don Carlos out of his mountains.

And then he said something in old Greek, which I scarcely understood,
but which I think was equivalent to, 'Let us eat, drink, and be merry,
for to-morrow we die!

And then came the usual chorus on such occasions, of Que infamia!

And then the thought of the schatz once more rushed into my mind, and
I reflected how happy I might be, could I but dig up the schatz.

And then he cried, 'Desist, O Tangerines!

And then he appeared suddenly to see something wonderfully interesting
behind him, which served as an excuse to turn his reddening face away.

And then he added, quickly: "An' this is Saturday afternoon.

And then he waited for the words which would seal his fate.

And then mark how he excites himself to lust as by celestial
authority: "And what God?

And then I saw Thy invisible things understood by the things which are
made.

And then by little and little I recovered my former thoughts of Thy
handmaid, her holy conversation towards Thee, her holy tenderness and
observance towards us, whereof I was suddenly deprived: and I was
minded to weep in Thy sight, for her and for myself, in her behalf and
in my own.

And then, take my word for it, I nearly killed her.

And then he seemed to discern in her something that was familiar,
something which carried him back into a joyous and unforeseeing past,
before the necessity of taking thought had made the heavens gray.

And then--there is something very unusual about it--about me.

And then for the first time in their lives they shopped as partners in
one concern.

And then, although she would rather there had been no word spoken on
the subject, Tess had to hear in detail the story of Marian and Retty.

And then her cooing voice, plaintive in expostulation, disturbed the
darkness, the velvet touch of her lips passed over his brow, and he
could distinguish in the air the warmth of her breath.

... And then he came back!

And then I dressed myself and came away to find you.

And then she led him into the hut, where he needed no pressing to do
what she desired of him.

And then to the very depths of my heart I rejoiced that I had spoken
so frankly.

And then, as I gathered from Mr. Corbeck's story, the coffer was not
back in the tomb, though the mummy was.

And then the deep eyes filled up with unshed tears of great emotion.

And then a sudden calm fell on us like a cloud of fear.

And then on either side, linked by golden clasps of exquisite shape,
was a line of flaming jewels, of which the colours seemed to glow.

And then he glides about and speaks a word here and a word there, in
consequence of which, when the anti-official motion is made, a
considerable array of steady, grave faces sits behind the Treasury
Bench--nay, possibly a rising man who sits in outlying independence
below the gangway rises to defend the transaction; the department wins
by thirty-three, and the management of that business pursues its
steady way.

And then, as the idea came home to him, he resorted to caricature.

`And then, looking more nearly into their features, I saw some further
peculiarities in their Dresden-china type of prettiness.

And then I remembered that strange terror of the dark.

And then I thought once more of the meat that I had seen.

And then down in the remote blackness of the gallery I heard a
peculiar pattering, and the same odd noises I had heard down the well.

And then it came into my head that I would amaze our friends behind by
lighting it.

And then I do not see how any one could have lived more comfortably.

And then they steamed bang into the monitor.

And then as he saw the squire's letter, he seemed to me to give
something almost like a start.

And then, as Morgan rolled back to his seat, Silver added to me in a
confidential whisper that was very flattering, as I thought, "He's
quite an honest man, Tom Morgan, on'y stupid.

And then as I was hurrying off I heard him say, quite loudly, to the
doctor, "I'll have no favourites on my ship.

And then I heard the voice of Captain Smollett issuing orders.

And then he turned again to the mutineers.

And then, as we all slunk back to our places, "Gray," he said, "I'll
put your name in the log; you've stood by your duty like a seaman.

And then, of a sudden, I began to comprehend.

And then, all of a sudden, a shrill voice broke forth out of the
darkness: "Pieces of eight!

And then, in his first gracious tones, he replied to me, "Yesterday
morning, Mr. Hawkins," said he, "in the dog-watch, down came Doctor
Livesey with a flag of truce.

And then, fourth, there's this here boy.

And then he bade them get the fire lit, and stalked out upon his
crutch, with his hand on my shoulder, leaving them in a disarray, and
silenced by his volubility rather than convinced.

And then, mates, us that has the boats, I reckon, has the upper hand.

And then, making a great effort: "Shipmates," he cried, "I'm here to
get that stuff, and I'll not be beat by man or devil.

`And thenk what wo ther hath bitid er this, For makinge of avantes, as
men rede; And what mischaunce in this world yet ther is, 290 Fro day
to day, right for that wikked dede; For which these wyse clerkes that
ben dede Han ever yet proverbed to us yonge, That "Firste vertu is to
kepe tonge.

`And thenketh wel, ye shal in Grekes finde, A more parfit love, er it
be night, Than any Troian is, and more kinde, 920 And bet to serven
yow wol doon his might.

And then curious indeed was it to see how many people suddenly came
into view on the river--to see how they appeared to issue from below
the very ice itself, and, hurrying to and fro like jackdaws startled
by the shot of a gun, to dart hither and thither, and to seize up
planks and boathooks, and to throw them down again, and once more to
seize them up.

And then, with a sidelong glance at myself, asked in a deep bass
voice: "Who is this young man?

And then, and then--oh, THEN I was seized with an illness.

And then I heard the doctor put in: "'What was it you gave him?

"And then I pressed him further," Kalinin added.

And then the Mother of God would say to Her Son: "Son, pray see the
fearfulness of Thy people on earth, and their estrangement from joy!

And then Ferdinand, in another fine long speech (for young princes
speak in courtly phrases), told the innocent Miranda he was heir to
the crown of Naples, and that she should be his queen.

And then Prospero embraced his brother, and again assured him of his
forgiveness; and said that a wise overruling Providence had permitted
that he should be driven from his poor dukedom of Milan, that his
daughter might inherit the crown of Naples, for that by their meeting
in this desert island, it had happened that the king's son had loved
Miranda.

And then, too,' said he to Florizel, 'I lost the society and
friendship of your grave father, whom I now desire more than my life
once again to look upon.

And then he highly praised Proteus to the duke, saying: 'My lord,
though I have been a truant of my time, yet hath my friend made use
and fair advantage of his days, and is complete in person and in mind,
in all good grace to grace a gentleman.

And then Gratiano, who loved to copy what his lord did, thought he
must make a speech like Bassanio's, and he said, in Nerissa's hearing,
who was writing in her clerk's dress by the side of Portia: 'I have a
wife, whom I protest I love; I wish she were in heaven, if she could
but entreat some power there to change the cruel temper of this
currish Jew.

And then he sharpened his long knife again, and looking eagerly on
Antonio, he said: 'Come, prepare!

And then,' said Polydore to his brother, 'how angel- like he sings!

And then to see him fall on his knees to beg pardon of his child; and
she, good lady, kneeling all the while to ask a blessing of him, and
telling him that it did not become him to kneel, but it was her duty,
for she was his child, his true and very child Cordial!

And then he ordered his horses, affirming they should reach Baptista's
house by dinner-time, for that it was but seven o'clock.

And then she told him, she hoped he only spoke these words to try her
virtue.

And then she showed to the duke and Mariana two keys that Angelo had
given her; and she said: 'This bigger key opens the vineyard gate;
this other a little door which leads from the vineyard to the garden.

And then he said to Viola: 'You know, Cesario, I have told you all the
secrets of my heart; therefore, good youth, go to Olivia's house.

And then, forgetting her determination to go veiled for seven long
years, she drew aside her veil, saying: 'But I will draw the curtain
and show the picture.

And then she wished Cesario was the duke; and perceiving the fast hold
he had taken on her affections, she blamed herself for her sudden
love: but the gentle blame which people lay upon their own faults has
no deep root; and presently the noble lady Olivia so far forgot the
inequality between her fortunes and those of this seeming page, as
well as the maidenly reserve which is the chief ornament of a lady's
character, that she resolved to court the love of young Cesario, and
sent a servant after him with a diamond ring, under the presence that
he had left it with her as a present from Orsino.

And then he showed her whom she had got in his stead: how like a
blight or a mildew he looked, for so he had blasted his wholesome
brother.

And then turning to Cleon's wife, Dionysia, he said: 'Good madam, make
me blessed in your care in bringing up my child': and she answered: 'I
have a child myself who shall not be more dear to my respect than
yours, my lord'; and Cleon made the like promise, saying: 'Your noble
services, prince Pericles, in feeding my whole people with your corn
(for which in their prayers they daily remember you) must in your
child be thought on.

And then he addressed her in courtly terms, as if the lowly-seeming
maid had been the high-born lady he wished to kind her, calling her
Fair and beautiful Marina, telling her a great prince on board that
ship had fallen into a sad and mournful silence; and, as if Marina had
the power of conferring health and felicity, he begged she would
undertake to cure the royal stranger of his melancholy.

And then and there did Pericles, with the consent of Thaisa, solemnly
affiance their daughter, the virtuous Marina, to the well-deserving
Lysimachus in marriage.

And then some one did die, and they let me aboard.

And then there was consideration--and consideration was sweet.

And then Miles's.

And then a trump is led, then another trump; then a king--and then an
ace--and then a long ten, which brings down from the meagre doctor his
only remaining tower of strength--his cherished queen of trumps.

And then, without waiting for an answer, he described to her, as he
best could, the accusation that was made about Hiram's will; the
claims which the old men put forward; what he considered the strength
and what the weakness of his own position; the course which Bold had
taken, and that which he presumed he was about to take; and then by
degrees, without further question, he presumed on the fact of
Eleanor's love, and spoke of that love as a feeling which he could in
no way disapprove: he apologised for Bold, excused what he was doing;
nay, praised him for his energy and intentions; made much of his good
qualities, and harped on none of his foibles; then, reminding his
daughter how late it was, and comforting her with much assurance which
he hardly felt himself, he sent her to her room, with flowing eyes and
a full heart.

And then curtseying low she sailed on, leaving her lover in anything
but a happy state of mind.

And then the floodgates of his tongue were loosed, and, at length,
with unsparing detail of circumstances, he told her all that he
wished, and all that he could not do.

And then when they had discussed all this, when the father had told
all to the child, she could not be less confiding than he had been;
and as John Bold's name was mentioned between them, she owned how well
she had learned to love him--'had loved him once,' she said, 'but she
would not, could not do so now--no, even had her troth been plighted
to him, she would have taken it back again--had she sworn to love him
as his wife, she would have discarded him, and not felt herself
forsworn, when he proved himself the enemy of her father.

And then she slept; and then she rose refreshed; and met her father
with her kindest embrace and most loving smiles; and on the whole
their breakfast was by no means so triste as had been their dinner the
day before; and then, making some excuse to her father for so soon
leaving him, she started on the commencement of her operations.

And then Mary would talk as though they three were joined in some
close peculiar bond together; as though they were in future always to
wish together, contrive together, and act together; and Eleanor could
not gainsay this; she could not make another speech, and say, 'Mr Bold
and I are strangers, Mary, and are always to remain so!

And then, before he could let her know what had caused this sudden
resolve, or could point to the fatal paper which lay on the table, she
told him that the lawsuit was over, that Bold had commissioned her to
assure her father in his name that it would be abandoned,--that there
was no further cause for misery, that the whole matter might be looked
on as though it had never been discussed.

And then, recollecting that the attorney-general would hardly care to
hear how the service of a cathedral church is divided among the minor
canons, stopped short in his explanations.

And then the good-natured little man began to consider how his friend
might be best rescued from a death so horrid and painful.

And then the fifth quarter lost: all that raw stuff, hide, hair,
horns.

And then the lamb and the cat and the dog and the stick and the water
and the butcher.

And then the angel of death kills the butcher and he kills the ox and
the dog kills the cat.

And then laughed more.

And then an old fellow starts blowing into his bagpipes and all the
gougers shuffling their feet to the tune the old cow died of.

And then there came out upon the air the sound of voices and the
pealing anthem of the organ.

And then she told him to say papa.

And then a rocket sprang and bang shot blind blank and O!

And then their stomachs clean.

And then the heat.

And then he added with rather gallowsbird humour considering his
alleged end: --AS BAD AS OLD ANTONIO, FOR HE LEFT ME ON MY OWNIO.

And then the usual DENOUEMENT after the fun had gone on fast and
furious he got 1190 landed into hot water and had to be spirited away
by a few friends, after a strong hint to a blind horse from John
Mallon of Lower Castle Yard, so as not to be made amenable under
section two of the criminal law amendment act, certain names of those
subpoenaed being handed in but not divulged for reasons which will
occur to anyone with a pick of brains.

And then, number one, you came up against the man in possession and
had to produce your credentials like the claimant in the Tichborne
case, Roger Charles Tichborne, BELLA was the boat's name to the best
of his recollection he, the heir, went down in as the evidence went to
show and there was a tattoo mark too in Indian ink, lord Bellew was
it, as he might very easily have picked up the details from some pal
on board ship and then, when got up to tally with the description
given, introduce himself with: EXCUSE ME, MY NAME IS SO AND SO or some
such commonplace remark.

And then coming back was the worst thing you ever did because it went
without saying you would feel out of place as things always moved with
the times.

And then beyond the Reflecting Pool the dignified columns of the
Lincoln Memorial.

And then we will do the wisest thing of all: We will turn to the only
resource we have that in times of need always grows--the goodness and
the courage of the American people.

And then all were gone, and the mourners went back to the place which
should know her no more; and Marie's room was darkened, and she lay on
the bed, sobbing and moaning in uncontrollable grief, and calling
every moment for the attentions of all her servants.

And then he introduced him to another lady, and I saw soon that his
heart was gone from me.

And then rose up that solemn veiled figure, and drew aside the veil.

And then he would watch, day after day, in the vague hope of seeing
somebody sent to redeem him; and, when nobody came, he would crush
back to his soul bitter thoughts,--that it was vain to serve God, that
God had forgotten him.

And then, existence is tedious, anyway; it is a senseless, dirty
business, this life, and goes heavily.

And then, as soon as it is day, you will come home with me.

And then, as swift as light from a fixed star, the answer came to me.

And then, wonder of wonders and delight of de- lights!

And then Irving Carter, painter, millionaire, etc., felt a warm flush
rise to his aristocratically pale face.

And then be felt a sudden tolerance for them, and an elating,
courageous contempt for the conventions upon which he had fed, and an
unhesitating deter- mination to have this perfect creature for his
own.

And then," continued Carter, "we will travel on and see whatever we
wish in the world.

And then he thought of the three years she had suffered immurement,
uncomplaining, and a flush of shame warmed him, for he carried fair
play as an item in his creed.

And then "Big Jim" Dougherty, who was no talker, sat dumb, and saw the
wife who had dined every evening for three years at home, blossom like
a fairy flower.

And then a stray bunch of politicians and good fellows who lived for
sport came into the room.

And then two big police- men took a band and dragged out of the
furious mob of onlookers a crushed and trampled thing, with a wedding
ring in its vest pocket and a shredded and hysterical woman beating
her way to the carpet's edge, ragged, bruised and obstreperous.

And then in unison all the voices of the soil began a chant addressed
to the soul of Robert Walmsley.

And then, with a whoop, he clattered to the rear and brought back
Uncle like, a battered colored retainer of the family, with his banjo,
and strewed sand on the porch and danced "Chicken in the Bread Tray"
and did buck-and- wing wonders for half an hour longer.

And then Pettit came to me bearing an invisible mitten, with the
forti- tude of a dish-rag.

And then old Pettit smiled slowly.

And then Cal Harkness, probably reasoning that further pursuance of
the controversy would give a too decided personal flavor to the feud,
suddenly disappeared from the relieved Cumberlands, baulking the
avenging hand of Sam, the ultimate op- posing Folwell.

And then the city smote him with loneliness.

And then, as though she had caught his respectful but ardent regard,
she melted away, leaving the fragrant emblems on the window-sill.

And then comes this ruling of the polis driving people out o' their
comfortable homes to sleep in parks -- 'twas for all the world like a
ukase of them Rus- sians -- 'twill be heard from again at next
election time.

And then "Tiger's" eye, discrediting these signs, fell upon one that
bore a bud of promise.

And then I thought of the quantity of striped cuffs and blue glass
beads that $2,000,000 can buy for the heathen, and I said to myself
that he was.

And then Elise -- certainly that was her name told us, merrily, that
the brown spot on her waist was caused by her landlady knocking at the
door while she (the girl -- confound the English language) was heating
an iron over the gas jet, and she hid the iron under the bedclothes
until the coast was clear, and there was the piece of chewing gum
stuck to it when she began to iron the waist, and -- well, I wondered
bow in the world the chewing gum came to be there -- don't they ever
stop chewing it?

And then, in the vernacular: "Jesse Holmes for yours.

And then I looked around and saw the Fool-Killer, as he had always
appeared to my imagination, sitting at a nearby table, and regarding
us with his reddish, fatal, relentless eyes.

And then I knew that for some reason the veil had been lifted for me
alone, and that I bad been elected to save my friend from de-
struction at the Fool-Killer's bands.

And then Highsmith played his trump.

And then, as Kernan's ready finger kept the but- ton and the waiter
working, his weak point -- a tre- mendous vanity and arrogant egotism,
began to show itself.

And then a weird and gorgeous musical comedy engaged their attention.

And then outside the cafe the comparative stillness of the early
morning was punctured by faint, uncer- tain cries that seemed mere
fireflies of sound, some growing louder, some fainter, waxing and
waning amid the rumble of milk wagons and infrequent cars.

And then there are two fates open to us.

And then, as suddenly as the dreadful genie arose in vapor from the
copper vase of the fisherman, arose in that room the formidable shape
of the New England Conscience.

And then came Mr. Brunelli to Katy's secluded table, and drew a chair
close to hers.

And then he painted for them with hard, broad strokes a marvellous
lingual panorama of the West.

And then, with a sweep of his white, unringed hands, be dismissed
Melpomene, and forthwith Diana and Amaryllis footed it before the
mind's eyes of the clubmen.

And then to-morrow I'll strike the old Broadway trail again, and wear
some more paint off the chairs in the agents' offices.

"And then I caught the four-thirty-eight, soft- coal unlimited; and
here I am."

And then, to have a brother, a dear brother!

And then another case was called, and Mr. George Osborne thenceforth
dismissed from these worthy gentlemen's memory.

And then she fell to thinking what she should do if--if anything
happened to poor good Rawdon, and what a great piece of luck it was
that he had left his horses behind.

And then Lady Jane and her new-found friend had one of those
confidential medical conversations about the children, which all
mothers, and most women, as I am given to understand, delight in.

And then she mentioned how often she had heard of Lady Southdown from
that excellent man the Reverend Lawrence Grills, Minister of the
chapel in May Fair, which she frequented; and how her views were very
much changed by circumstances and misfortunes; and how she hoped that
a past life spent in worldliness and error might not incapacitate her
from more serious thought for the future.

And then she went into her room, and sank down in despair and utter
misery.

And then my lord would defy the ghost which threatened him, for he
knew of a remedy by which he could baulk his enemy.

And then indeed the little woman found herself in such a situation as
made her acknowledge the correctness of Lord Steyne's caution to her
to beware of the society of ladies above her own sphere.

And then, in her sweet simple way, George's mother made commentaries
to the boy upon this affecting story.

And then--then he came home.

And then it struck her, with inexpressible pain and mortification too,
that it was William who was the giver of the piano, and not George, as
she had fancied.

"And then you were together five years in California, so that this
business dates back not less than eleven years at the least?"

And then, for your religion, profess none, But wonder at the
diversity, of all: And, for your part, protest, were there no other
But simply the laws o' the land, you could content you, Nic.

And then again I dreamed that two fair whelps lay before me yelling
aloud, and that the flesh of them I ate, though my will went not with
the eating.

And then, besides these performances of his depending on his own
strength of mind and body, fortune was also very favorable to him; for
he seldom failed of success in his wars; and when he failed, he was
not himself the occasion of such failings, but he either vas betrayed
by some, or the rashness of his own soldiers procured his defeat.

And then it was that Cestius, despairing of obtaining room for a
public march, contrived how he might best run away; and when he had
selected four hundred of the most courageous of his soldiers, he
placed them at the strongest of their fortifications, and gave order,
that when they went up to the morning guard, they should erect their
ensigns, that the Jews might be made to believe that the entire army
was there still, while he himself took the rest of his forces with
him, and marched, without any noise, thirty furlongs.

And then he perceived that, very slowly, the circular top of the
cylinder was rotating on its body.

And then, with a renewed horror, I saw a round, black object bobbing
up and down on the edge of the pit.

And then, within thirty yards of the pit, advancing from the direction
of Horsell, I noted a little black knot of men, the foremost of whom
was waving a white flag.

And then, very slowly, I realised that by a miracle I had escaped.

And then the Martian beside us raised his tube on high and discharged
it, gunwise, with a heavy report that made the ground heave.

And then night and extinction--nothing but a silent mass of
impenetrable vapour hiding its dead.

And then a swift movement of the steamboat (she had suddenly come
round to avoid being run down) flung him headlong from the seat upon
which he was standing.

And then they yelled again.

And then followed such a concussion as I have never heard before or
since.

And then the light filtered in, not through the window, which remained
black, but through a triangular aperture between a beam and a heap of
broken bricks in the wall behind us.

And then, amid the clangour of the machinery, came a drifting
suspicion of human voices, that I entertained at first only to
dismiss.

And then I forget.

And then a strange thing occurred.

And then sometimes he was wanted to dance with them, and he did not
know how to dance, and did not want to know.

And then, you know," said Ernest to me, when I asked him not long
since to give me more of his childish reminiscences for the benefit of
my story, "we used to learn Mrs Barbauld's hymns; they were in prose,
and there was one about the lion which began, 'Come, and I will show
you what is strong.

And then, he was such a wonderful speaker; at the Union Debating Club
he had been without a rival, and had, of course, been president; his
moral character,--a point on which so many geniuses were weak--was
absolutely irreproachable; foremost of all, however, among his many
great qualities, and perhaps more remarkable even than his genius was
what biographers have called "the simple-minded and child-like
earnestness of his character," an earnestness which might be perceived
by the solemnity with which he spoke even about trifles.

And then people call him a sensible man.

And then there's his dear eyes--but when I speak about that to my Rose
she calls me an old fool and says I ought to be poleaxed.

And then she did come out, and before she had been free a fortnight,
she began shop-lifting and going on the loose again--and all to get
money to drink with.

"And then I should get no brains," said the Scarecrow.

And then they scampered in all directions, for Toto had awakened from
his sleep, and seeing all these mice around him he gave one bark of
delight and jumped right into the middle of the group.

And then another crow flew at him, and the Scarecrow twisted its neck
also.

And then she called a dozen of her slaves, who were the Winkies, and
gave them sharp spears, telling them to go to the strangers and
destroy them.

And then he dismounted and placed his hand upon my shoulder after the
manner of most friendly greeting upon Mars.

And then the fight surged upon us once more and we were separated, but
my heart's desire was attained, and it was with renewed vigor and a
joyous soul that I laid about me with my long-sword until the last of
the green men had had enough and had withdrawn toward their distant
sea bottom.

And then Kulan Tith told of the savage calot that fought beside me,
and after that I saw suspicion in the eyes of Matai Shang--or did I
but imagine it?

And then the black-bearded tyrant turned and cast a sudden greedy look
upon Dejah Thoris, as though with the words a new thought and a new
desire had sprung up within his mind and breast.

And then, just as my hope and courage had ebbed to their lowest, I saw
two things.

And then another truth flashed upon me--I had lived nine days of the
allotted ten which must intervene before Salensus Oll could make Dejah
Thoris his queen.

And then, with a glad cry, I turned with outstretched arms to seize my
princess, and as my lips smothered hers to reap the reward that would
be thrice ample payment for the bloody encounters through which I had
passed for her dear sake from the south pole to the north.

And then a great cry of rejoicing rose among the free men of Marentina
and the Kadabran prisoners, for all had thought that the red men would
retain that which they had taken by force of arms, for such had been
the way upon Barsoom, and that they should be ruled henceforth by an
alien Jeddak.

And then she experienced a keen paroxyism, a transport, as if she had
made some incredible discovery, known to nobody else on earth.

And then, a moment after, she was saying assuredly, 'I shall know more
of that man.

And then, he was not there.

And then Ursula noticed again the dark, rather stooping figure of Mr
Crich, waiting suspended on the path, watching with expressionless
face the flight to the church.

And then the crowd in one impulse moved to the dining-room.

And then, to the company, 'Father is lying down, he is not quite well.

And then immediately the shadow came back, a sullen, eagle look was on
her face, she glanced from under her brows like a sinister creature at
bay, hating them all.

And then only she turned to Ursula, who, with all the class, had been
watching the little scene between the lovers.

And then in a tone of whimsical inquisitiveness: 'What fruit, Rupert?

And then she began to cry, bitterly, bitterly weeping: but whether for
misery or joy, she never knew.

And then if he doesn't want me, I know I can get work with Carmarthen.

And then he explored the Amazon,' said Birkin, 'and now he is ruling
over coal-mines.

And then he says I persecute him, that he can't get rid of me.

And then he knew, he must go away from her, there must be pure
separation between them.

And then round the bushes came the tall form of Alexander Roddice,
striding romantically like a Meredith hero who remembers Disraeli.

And then, to the amazement of everybody, the maid came hurrying with a
large tea-tray.

And then, what a snare and a delusion, this beauty of static things--
what a horrible, dead prison Breadalby really was, what an intolerable
confinement, the peace!

And then she realised that his presence was the wall, his presence was
destroying her.

And then on the very wound the bright spurs came down, pressing
relentlessly.

And then she was filled with a fury of contempt and anger.

And then, like a dart, it had shot out of the room, through the open
window-doors, and into the garden.

And then she took the lanterns from him, while he stood swooning with
the perfect fire that burned in all his joints.

And then he remembered his manners.

And then again came the child's high, screaming voice, with a note of
weeping and impatience in it now: 'Di--Oh Di--Oh Di--Di--!

And then the thought came back.

And then she'd turn on you as if she'd trample you under her feet.

And then it came to an end, and the men went back to work.

And then, in this case there was perfection attained, the will of the
highest was perfectly fulfilled, the will of mankind was perfectly
enacted; for was not mankind mystically contra-distinguished against
inanimate Matter, was not the history of mankind just the history of
the conquest of the one by the other?

And then began the great reform.

And then quite suddenly it settled down, hobbled among the grass, and
sat considering, its nose twitching like a bit of fluff in the wind.

And then, out of a full throat, she crooned 'Kiss me!

And then the real clumsiness of his mind is its lack of self-
criticism.

And then what?

And then again they had a real struggle.

And then it came to him that it was his own heart beating.

And then come the reactions.

And then I am interested in Italy, in her coming to national
consciousness.

And then, after a pause: 'Don't you like the yellow ring at all?

And then--' 'There's a bicycle coming,' he said, writhing under her
loud denunciation.

And then you realise that it was there all the time--it was always
there--you understand what I mean?--the possibility of this incurable
illness, this slow death.

And then, as in a dream, he was in the long street of Beldover, with
its street-lamps.

And then, very near to his face, to his fear, he saw the round, dark
head of a boy.

And then you could see,' said Ursula.

And then, when one has seen one's soul, one is something else.

And then--' he stopped on the snow and suddenly opened his clenched
hands--'it's nothing--your brain might have gone charred as rags--
and--' he looked round into the air with a queer histrionic movement
'it's blasting--you understand what I mean--it is a great experience,
something final--and then--you're shrivelled as if struck by
electricity.

And then, in 1912, occurred the great turning point in Anderson's
life.

And then, of course, he had known people, many people, known them in a
peculiarly intimate way that was different from the way in which you
and I know people.

And then the people came along.

And then the tragedy.

And then there was the second expression of her restlessness.

And then again he was convinced that they contained the very essence
of truth.

And then when she came back into town she again drove furiously
through the quiet streets.

And then suddenly Louise realized that she was not alone in the house.

And then on a Monday evening two or three weeks after the writing of
the note, John Hardy came for her.

And then one night when it rained Alice had an adventure.

And then, looking down, Seth had seen the bees everywhere all about
him in the long grass.

And then something would happen.

And then a new idea dawned for him.

And then came the spring night when he got drunk.

And then I was married and it did not turn out at all," she said
bitterly.

And then something happened.

And then of course my family has also to be considered," Prince Vasili
went on, testily pushing away a little table without looking at her.

And then, old fellow, he gives him one in the teeth with the butt end
of his gun..." a soldier whose greatcoat was well tucked up said
gaily, with a wide swing of his arm.

And then that happy moment, that Toulon for which he had so long
waited, presents itself to him at last.

And then to call him out, reckoning on Fedya not fighting because he
owed him money!

And then I was saying to myself all the way, 'How well Anisya carried
herself, how well!

And then so, do you see?

And then you will know the happiness of forgiving.

And then the determination of the troops would be quite different.

And then nothing would have happened.

And then the Emperor..." he began, but Pierre interrupted him.

And then I am used to not sleeping before a battle.

And then such a death... without friends and without consolation!

And then there are you and the children and our affairs.

And then, across the narrow oblong box, each nodded to the other.

And then, so strange was the dream, there was a crash.

And then he awoke to find the howling real.

And then she found the thing for which she sought.

And then there came to him a feeling that he wanted her more than all
the rest of the things in the world.

And then the cub saw his mother, the she-wolf, the fearless one,
crouching down till her belly touched the ground, whimpering, wagging
her tail, making peace signs.

And then shame came to him.

And then, blind and reeling, he followed at Beauty Smith's heels back
to the fort.

And then, one night, Matt, reading to himself with moving lips and
mumbled sounds, was startled by a low whine from White Fang.

And then, suddenly, he turned upon her.

And then, one day, again out in the back-pasture, he saw Dick start a
jackrabbit and run it.

And then, on the crowded sidewalks there were persons innumerable
whose attention he attracted.

And then, just as suddenly, like the sun rising on a stormy sea, they
would begin to laugh.

And then, one night, he escaped.

And then Jim Hall disappeared.

And then Mr. Linton, to mend matters, paid us a visit himself on the
morrow, and read the young master such a lecture on the road he guided
his family, that he was stirred to look about him, in earnest.

'And then we shall fight to the death, sha'n't we, Nelly?

And then, I thought, how ever will that weakling live at Wuthering
Heights?

'And then you would like me as well as your father?

And then she cried, and took a little picture from her neck, and said
I should have that; two pictures in a gold case, on one side her
mother, and on the other uncle, when they were young.

And then, to get them jocks out o' t' maister's cellar!

And then I set myself to reflect how I had tended him in infancy, and
watched him grow to youth, and followed him almost through his whole
course; and what absurd nonsense it was to yield to that sense of
horror.

And then let the head-piece fall again, and set spurs to his horse and
gallopped away.

And then shall all be well, for in a few days we will go back to thy
people, and there will I be their lord or thy servant, or my brother's
man, or what thou wilt.

And then she fetched a sigh, and began with her story again.

And then I spake again, and told him that he should by no means stop
at our house, and l told him what it was like, so that he might give
it the go by.

And then, despite the nakedness and poverty wherein they had first
seen us, they would have it that we were gods sent down to them from
the world beyond the mountains by their fathers of old time; for of
Holy Church, and the Blessed Trinity, and the Mother of God they knew
no more than did I at that time, but were heathen, as the Gentiles of
yore agone.

And then, at last, he spake to me of our case, and bade me fear not,
for that a band of his friends, all-armed, was keeping watch and ward
in the cloister without.

And then he went to his bed, and pondered these matters somewhat, and
said to himself that it was by this damsel's means that he should find
the Well at the World's End.

And then it seemed to him that he could behold her through the
darkness of night, clad in the green flowered gown as he had first
seen her, and she bewailing her captivity and the long tarrying of the
deliverer as she went to and fro in a great chamber builded of marble
and done about with gold and bright colours: and or ever he slept, he
deemed this to be a vision of what then was, rather than a memory of
what had been; and it was sweet to his very soul.

"And then will he slay me?"

And then I myself, when I was gotten very old, fared thither a-seeking
it, and I found it; for I was one of those who bore the chaplet of the
seekers.

And then I went up into the Lord's chamber; and as it happed, all the
while of my playing I had had my short-sword naked in my hand, and
thus, I deem without noting it, yet as weird would, I came before the
tyrant, where he sat with none anigh him save this Otter and another
man-at-arms.

And then Ralph told all the tale of his wanderings how it had betid,
bringing in all that Ursula had told him of Utterbol; while as for her
she put in no word of it.

And then do thy will, O Friend of the Well.

And then, when Ralph had risen up and the horses were come, he said to
him: "One thing thou art not to forget, young conqueror, to wit, that
thou art to come here early one day, and tell me all thy tale at full
length.

And then there's Badger, of course.

And then you'll have to go to a blacksmith's or a wheelwright's and
arrange for the cart to be fetched and mended and put to rights.

And then you turned to and found the very door-scraper that done it!

And then, if your ideas get larger and you want to expand--why, a dig
and a scrape, and there you are!

And then they heard the angels tell `Who were the first to cry NOWELL?

And then there are--well, traps and things--YOU know.

And then the food--do you like shellfish?

And then you can give them a licking a-piece, if it's any satisfaction
to you, and put them out by the back-door, and we shan't see any more
of THEM, I fancy.

And then come along and have some of this cold tongue.

And then to have my young revellers of the Temple take notes, like
prentices at a conventicle; and after talk it over again in Commons,
or before drawers in an eating-house.

And then when the sun came and that awful pattern began to laugh at
me, I declared I would finish it to-day!

And then I said it again, several times, very gently and slowly, and
said it so often that he had to go and see, and he got it of course,
and came in.

And then I thought also of Antoinette de Mauban and her journey to
Strelsau.

And then came the Duke of Strelsau.

And then I was a young man and I loved action, and I was offered such
a hand in such a game as perhaps never man played yet.

And then I heard the sobs of the King.

