Moonlight.

It was moonlight.

It was moonlight.

There is moonlight.

Piers by moonlight.

When it's moonlight!

Look at the moonlight.

Our moonlight circle's.

It was bright moonlight.

It was a moonlight night.

When it's moonlight, though?

Moonlight silver effulgence.

It was a superb moonlight night.

Her name was Kamrya (Moonlight).

THE EXPEDITION BY MOONLIGHT III.

THE EXPEDITION BY MOONLIGHT III.

The moonlight blazed full on it.

The sun; it is not moonlight now.

The moonlight called up memories.

_8 moonlight 1816; mountain 1839.

Walks in the moonlight by the sea.

_31 moon-like 1824; moonlight 1839.

The moonlight than the fog of frost?

How funny it looked in the moonlight!

Moonlight on the water--lovely woman.

The moonlight would not let her sleep.

Unfortunately it was bright moonlight.

I glanced at my watch in the moonlight.

'The moonlight lays a white hand on it!

Moonlight, darkness, dawn, sunrise, day.

you say so-whole--in ze moonlight--Luna?

'The third house yonder in the moonlight.

His face looked ghastly in the moonlight.

We saw her very clearly in the moonlight.

He turned and went out into the moonlight.

Let us withdraw more out of the moonlight.

OBERON Ill met by moonlight, proud Titania.

It chanced to be a serene, moonlight night.

Halfdan v. Ebbe, on challenge, by moonlight.

Does there not seem a soul in the moonlight?

Moonlight gave the variation of her features.

He prefers the fireside and moonlight nights.

How sweet the moonlight sleeps upon this bank!

Jane smiled a fierce smile into the moonlight.

A DRIVE IN SUNLIGHT AND A DRIVE IN MOONLIGHT XX.

A DRIVE IN SUNLIGHT AND A DRIVE IN MOONLIGHT XX.

Come on out and see the old Sphinx by moonlight.

Maisie watched the face working in the moonlight.

He was quite clearly to be seen in the moonlight.

And your real lover that night was the moonlight.

With the moonlight scene opening this stanza, cp.

It was a very dusky, cloudy, but moonlight night.

Private Willis discovered on sentry, R. Moonlight.

They stared at one another in the clear moonlight.

END OF ACT I ACT II [SCENE.-- The same-- Moonlight.

A ray of impudent moonlight flickered upon her nose.

If moonlight and water will satisfy you, look yonder.

A beautiful bright moonlight night it happened to be.

Princess Moonlight's letter was carried to the Palace.

if the trees at moonlight sang always so harmoniously?

And there, in the bright moonlight, what did they see?

And I sat by moonlight amid the necropolis of Memphis.

"To see how pretty the Maypole looks in the moonlight?"

.and some have a soft glitter like moonlight on the sea.

With your guitar under the windows, of moonlight nights!

The moonlight fell on the heavy coils of her brown hair.

Three silver buttons gleamed distinctly in the moonlight.

END OF ACT I ACT II (Scene.-A ruined chapel by moonlight.

They walked in the moonlight by the railings of the park.

The gardens of a Palace -- Moonlight Lalage and Politian.

Blindman's buff was a great favorite for moonlight nights.

One fine moonlight night we went to see a Munnipore dance.

One fine moonlight night we went to see a Munnipore dance.

The moonlight on the lake is worth seeing from the terrace.

I'll met by moonlight, proud Titania,' said the fairy king.

It was a fine night: not moonlight, but sultry and fragrant.

The watering on the satin gown shimmered white as moonlight.

The silvery moonlight flooded the whole scene with radiance.

Jane promised herself a stroll round by moonlight presently.

The one candle was dying out: the room was full of moonlight.

And on the bay the moonlight lay, And the shadow of the Moon.

The road seemed deserted and very bright under the moonlight.

And on the bay the moonlight lay, And the shadow of the moon.

said Uriah, looking flabby and lead-coloured in the moonlight.

CHAPTER XIII THE ANSWER OF THE SPHINX Moonlight in the desert.

Dot could see its sharp, wicked teeth gleaming in the moonlight.

But for the moonlight they would have been in complete darkness.

It was a beautiful moonlight night, and the ride was delightful.

From the black dark, Bisesa held out her arms into the moonlight.

I dined with Legrandin on the terrace of his house, by moonlight.

Round to the front of the house at a trot, he stood in moonlight.

It was moonlight and gaslight besides, and very still and serene.

"Mr. Rochester, let me look at your face: turn to the moonlight."

So home by moonlight, it being about 9 o'clock before we got home.

"For the men in green: it was a proper moonlight evening for them."

Starlight, moonlight, or storm--it makes no difference to the woman.

She neither raved, nor fainted, nor walked about by moonlight alone.

Walking, you know, Ben, in the moonlight with those earthquake hats.

The priest moved about in the moonlight trying to comfort the people.

I walk in de moonlight, I walk in de starlight, To lay dis body down.

I walk in de moonlight, I walk in de starlight, To lay dis body down.

It was pale and exultant, his eyes shining brightly in the moonlight.

On a moonlight night Flood Ireson was roused by knocking at his door.

Still Princes Moonlight gave no sign of having received their verses.

When "moonlight" is announced in the calendar, not a lamp is lighted.

Corporal Slane crawled out of the shadow of a bank into the moonlight.

She swore there'd never been anything like it in the way of moonlight.

By the light of the fire he can be seen looking towards the moonlight.

The stage is dark, but the lake and glaciers glisten in the moonlight.

A sleepy fire of early moonlight hung through the dusky fir- branches.

Why sounds yon stroke on beech and oak, Our moonlight circle's screen?

Do you remember that moonlight night, when the nightingale was
singing?

By the moonlight, Lady Dedlock can be seen in profile, perfectly
still.

The bamboo-cutter and his wife hid Princess Moonlight in an inner
room.

At this moment the Earl appeared standing beside them in the
moonlight.

She fancied if she could hold it into the moonlight that would cool
it.

The man moaned, writhed a little, and his face came into the
moonlight.

Black against the square of moonlight I saw him stagger, I saw him
fall.

i. Scott is fond of moonlight effects, and he always succeeds with
them.

Princess Moonlight wondered that the Knight should have returned so
soon.

Ah, darling," she said, "take me away from this horrible white
moonlight!

Instantly we all of us looked, and this was what we saw in the
moonlight.

The brook rolled beside him fresh as an infant, toying with the
moonlight.

Princess Moonlight took the branch in her hand and looked at it
carefully.

It seemed to me, at night, in the moonlight, to be trying to twist
around.

Moonlight walks, when all the fowls Are warmly housed, save bats and
owls!

We were all impressed by the house as it appeared in the bright
moonlight.

It is so pleasant to go for long walks on these wonderful moonlight
nights!

Despiteful and terrible were the blows they gave and took by the
moonlight.

It was now near enough for us to see clearly, and the moonlight still
held.

Moonlight is friendless to eyes that would make sure of a face long
unseen.

"Look at the house, and describe it to me, as you see it in the
moonlight."

In the brilliant moonlight Tarzan witnessed the whole mad carnival of
rage.

She seems to me like a lake with its dark lonely waters edged by
moonlight.

It was between one and two o'clock at night,--broad, calm, still
moonlight.

The night was foggy and through the fog the moonlight gleamed
mysteriously.

END OF ACT I ACT II Scene--Exterior of Sir Marmaduke's mansion by
moonlight.

The moonlight suddenly failed, as a great black cloud sailed across
the sky.

She looked once more at the Sphinx and at the huge pyramid in the
moonlight.

It was a moonlight night when they arrived in the neighborhood of
Kittanning.

.when I meet the right one," said Anne, smiling dreamily up at the
moonlight.

Coatless, disheveled figures, my friend and I stepped out into the
moonlight.

Prose can paint evening and moonlight, but poets are needed to sing
the dawn.

Birkin, small and dark also, his hair tinged with moonlight, wandered
nearer.

A knife-blade glitters for an instant in the moonlight--and Cloudy Sky
is dead.

I dreamed of the moonlight on the water, until I felt inclined to
drown myself.

But above, to right, to left, down the long meadow the moonlight was
streaming.

One moonlight night, running through the quiet forest, One Eye
suddenly halted.

(The porter opens the doors; a view of old Paris in the moonlight is
seen): Ah!.

I was scared the woman would catch sight of me, for I was full in the
moonlight.

A ray of moonlight poured through the trees, and lighted up the face
of the dead.

His yacht was lying in a strip of moonlight near Sir Twickenham's
companion yawl.

CHAPTER XXXVIII PERPETUAL LIGHT Moonlight on the terrace--silvery,
white, serene.

Twixt rugged rocks did I suddenly stand alone, dreary in the dreariest
moonlight.

The moonlight on the gray kangaroo fur turned it to frosted silver of
the coldest.

Their way was down a green lane and across long meadow-paths dim in
the moonlight.

I will build it out of music by moonlight, and stain it with my own
heart's-blood.

On account of the rapid shortening of the days the harvesters worked
by moonlight.

Belike the fire was an earth-fire, and for the rest we saw wrong in
the moonlight.

In the moonlight I could see a tear glistening on the white patch of
his blind eye.

They were perched on a rock, and the moonlight lit all their
surroundings like day.

They were already indistinct in the mist of the moonlight before
Montgomery halted.

There is heard but the night-jar spinning on the pine-branch, circled
by moonlight.

The ape-man stood, half crouching, the long Arab knife glistening in
the moonlight.

No one was there, nothing but a streak of moonlight from the window
aslant the bed.

They both advanced beneath the trees, through whose branches streamed
the moonlight.

It was a cloudy, misty moonlight, and there he saw it!--something
white, gliding in!

In the sad moonlight, she clasped him by the neck, and laid her face
upon his breast.

By the light of the fire, which is low, he can be seen looking towards
the moonlight.

He crossed to the other side of the street, and Farina followed out of
the moonlight.

The soul of a lover lives through every member of him in the joy of a
moonlight ride.

As they slid along, noiseless as shadows, in the moonlight, they came
upon a run-way.

In the moonlight opposite me were three young women, ladies by their
dress and manner.

A ray of moonlight outlined his profile, and Jean Valjean recognized
old Fauchelevent.

He noticed it first on a moonlight night, and thereafter it was always
before his eyes.

He stood enormous above me in the moonlight, like an apparition
touching earth and sky.

They are very droll," said Suzanne to the conscript in the moonlight
by the studio wall.

The sweet charm of warm nights and of streams glittering in the
moonlight penetrated us.

His face was so beautiful in the moonlight that the little Swallow was
filled with pity.

There are some notable allusions in the poets to the moonlight baying
of dogs and wolves.

"Very well," returned Jack, and walked awkwardly out of the stable and
into the moonlight.

Moonlight was streaming into the room, and it was bright with a vague
and shifty radiance.

The grey sheen of the moonlight caught the stretch of water, dark
boats plashed and moved.

They were still surrounded by the magic plain bathed in moonlight and
spangled with stars.

My fair companion chose a moonlight night in order the better to
stimulate her imagination.

When I came in sight of the lock, there I saw a man standing alone,
sharp in the moonlight.

Digging began usually at six o'clock, and extended indefinitely into
the dusk or moonlight.

He could see the pianist sitting down to play the Moonlight Sonata,
and the grimaces of Mme.

The dormer window permitted the entrance of a ray of moonlight between
two blocks of shadow.

We could at that distance see an engine play--that is, the water go
out, it being moonlight.

The green silk fringe of the lamp had merely the colour of an emerald
seen in the moonlight.

Between me and the moonlight flitted a great bat, coming and going in
great whirling circles.

I will run down to the gates: it is moonlight at intervals; I can see
a good way on the road.

It seemed to hold the moonlight in suspension, rendering it more
pervasive than in clear air.

One evening after having supped tete-a-tete we went to walk in the
garden by a fine moonlight.

The moonlight comes in flashes,-- The dew is rising dankly from the
dell-- 'Twill moisten her!

What occasion could there be for moonlight in the daytime, and that
too whilst the sun shined?

"Oh, sahib, the man betrayed me; the heifer's tail waved in the
moonlight, and I had my knife."

I saw your fur shining in the moonlight, and I couldn't make out what
it was, so I came to see.

The tongues of all were out and lolling, the white fangs showing
cruelly white in the moonlight.

Just then, the moonlight crept round an angle of the building, and the
light fell on the window.

"Martin sat up in bed, it was a clear moonlight night-- the sort of
moonlight you get in Burma."

Yonder in a space of moonlight on lush grass, the beams were as white
fire to sight and feeling.

The time has come," he said, "for Princess Moonlight to return to the
moon from whence she came.

Then the messenger called aloud, saying: "Princess Moonlight, come out
from this lowly dwelling.

They were within six feet of me, and the shadow of the moonlight lay
velvet-black on their faces.

She said to me, 'Come along round behind the rock, there, and look at
the moonlight on the water!

"By the countess's visiting the Colosseum, as we did last night, by
moonlight, and nearly alone."

The moonlight was so bright that through the thick yellow blind the
room was light enough to see.

All four of us gathered to the open window, and enjoyed in silence the
cool air and the moonlight.

All at once the wolves began to howl as though the moonlight had had
some peculiar effect on them.

The moonlight shone directly upon Venn's face as he spoke, and
revealed all its lines to Eustacia.

One more heavy groan from Smith; but though he now lay in the full
moonlight I could see no motion.

As Diana represents the moonlight splendor of night, so Hecate
represents its darkness and terrors.

He seemed to remember it all,--the white woods, and earth, and
moonlight, and the thrill of battle.

He wished to show Albert the Colosseum by moonlight, as he had shown
him Saint Peter's by daylight.

One time we changed partners, Driving home in the moonlight of middle
June, And then I found Davis.

The soft moonlight soothed, and the wide expanse without gave a sense
of freedom which refreshed me.

For ye have power, men say, Our hearts in sleep to sway, And cage cold
fancies in a moonlight snare.

The air is deliciously cool," she said, "the moonlight peaceful and
poetic, and the garden inviting.

Soft fell the plash of the oars; softly the moonlight curled around
them; softly the banks glided by.

A moment later the servant's door was opened, and Mr. Joseph Harrison
stepped out into the moonlight.

From the side of the mountain, the house and a part of the palisade
stood out white in the moonlight.

Softly opening the door, he saw Christine's white form, in the
moonlight, slipping along the passage.

Quite different and yet the same," thought Nicholas, looking at her
face all lit up by the moonlight.

This spread of naked rock and peaks and moonlight is like a world
ready to be born, a world that waits.

Then I began to notice that there were some quaint little specks
floating in the rays of the moonlight.

I shut my eyes and see the whole country, but it is like what I feel
for Edward--all in dark moonlight.

You gat moonlight at night, maybe; see steamer pass; see schooner make
sail--see everytang dat's pooty.

And the next thing that happened was my boy lifting his shining eyes
and gazing at me in the moonlight.

By moonlight--the moon shines in all night when there is a moon--I
wouldn't know it was the same paper.

Away in the moonlight lie the woodland fields at rest, and the wide
house is as quiet as the narrow one.

I was resolved to communicate with our fleet that night, which
happened to be a beautiful moonlight one.

After dinner we took a walk by moonlight, and I whispered all the
tender things I could think of to her.

When the Court lady arrived, in spite of her father's entreaties,
Princess Moonlight refused to see her.

I glanced at its face by the moonlight, and then burst into tears as I
flung it far away into the ocean.

The moonlight flooded the beach, and the strange group stood out in
bold relief against the yellow sand.

At the end of the village stood a barn, and Ulrich noticed by the
moonlight an open hatchway in the wall.

Hast thou sought a sweeter cuckoo, Sought one fairer than the
moonlight, Sought a mermaid from the ocean?

The swimmer plied each active limb; Then landing in the moonlight
dell, Loud shouted of his weal to tell.

We camped upon the tracks the fourth night without water, it being
impossible to follow in the moonlight.

I even said so to John one moonlight evening, but he said what I felt
was a DRAUGHT, and shut the window.

Maisie put her elbows on the window-sill and looked at the moonlight
on the straight, poplar-flanked road.

He come on moonlight rays as elemental dust, as again Jonathan saw
those sisters in the castle of Dracula.

Greater means than thou commandest Must be used to free the sunshine,
Free the moonlight from her dungeon.

I, too, have had my dream, I, too, have meditated, I, too, have
sighed; I, too, have had a moonlight soul.

It, too, was a glorious jewel; one noble pearl of moonlight lustre,
flanked by carven pieces of moonstone.

Moonlight picnics are useful just at the very end of the season,
before all the girls go away to the Hills.

The moonlight broke the haze for a moment, touching the black sides of
a long steamer working down Channel.

She read that Mr. George Uplift had met 'our friend Mr. Snip' riding,
by moonlight, on the road to Beckley.

In the moonlight the shepherds, Soft lull'd by the rills, Lie wrapt in
their blankets, Asleep on the hills.

I looked out over the beautiful expanse, bathed in soft yellow
moonlight till it was almost as light as day.

Sometimes a mother would push her cub far out into the moonlight to be
sure that he had not been overlooked.

It was bright moonlight, but she could not have chosen a lonelier
spot, more free from curious eyes or ears.

Dunnoo, with his face ashy grey in the moonlight, implored me not to
stay but to get back to my tent at once.

I'm tired of everything and everybody, from a moonlight picnic at
Seepee to the blandishments of The Mussuck.

She had been told that a certain road led to Plaquemine, and took it
in a moonlight night and found her aunt.

In the moonlight the whole surface of the sand seemed to be shaken
with devilish delight at my disappointment.

Any ghost that ever flits by night across the moonlight square is at
once hailed by me as a man and a brother.

She, with the rest who were not yet on, had hitherto remained in the
moonlight which streamed under the porch.

Munádamah," = conversation over the cup (Lane), used somewhat in the
sense of "Musámarah" = talks by moonlight.

said Kilne, meditatively, 'I see him now, walking across the street in
the moonlight, after he 'd told me that.

You glowed in the cool moonlight last night, when you mutinied against
fate, and claimed your rank as my equal.

I thought of the moonlight adventures on the river, skulking along in
my boat, like a pirate on a night attack.

As soon as he opened the shutters the moonlight, as if it had long
been watching for this, burst into the room.

No; moonlight was still, and this stirred; while I gazed, it glided up
to the ceiling and quivered over my head.

I saw all the stone statues standing in the moonlight; and I myself
was like one of those stone statues walking.

All was dark and silent, the black shadows thrown by the moonlight
seeming full of a silent mystery of their own.

`The moon was setting, and the dying moonlight and the first pallor of
dawn were mingled in a ghastly half-light.

[FN#396] As a rule Easterns, I repeat, cover head and face when
sleeping especially in the open air and moonlight.

Little Toomai pattered after him, barefooted, down the road in the
moonlight, calling under his breath, "Kala Nag!

It is a moonlight night, but the moon, being past the full, is only
now rising over the great wilderness of London.

The night before they were killed, the three bears were led by
moonlight a long way on the ice of the frozen river.

When the boat was about a hundred yards from the shore, and in full
moonlight, she sang the great "Addio" of Hagar.

It was a moonlight night, and about one o'clock Flo and I were waked
by the most delicious music under our windows.

When she looked out she saw one of the men-at-arms walking in the
garden with the moonlight glancing on his armour.

As soon as it was moonlight and that poor thing began to crawl and
shake the pattern, I got up and ran to help her.

Simmons appropriated two more packets of ammunition and ran into the
moonlight, muttering: "I'll make a night of it.

The moonlight showed it all iron gray, except where some elephants
stood upon it, and their shadows were inky black.

At times the shadow of the willows hid her completely; then she
reappeared suddenly, like a vision in the moonlight.

At night in any kind of light, in twilight, candle light, lamplight,
and worst of all by moonlight, it becomes bars!

It was possible, just possible, that I might, in the uncertain
moonlight, safely run the gauntlet of the rifle shots.

How quiet and sweet and wholesome the garden looked in the moonlight,
and it could not be more than thirty feet down.

It was a beautiful moonlight night, and the lawn in front of the house
was silvered over and almost as bright as day.

[The C-sharp minor sonata is that popularly known as the "Moonlight
Sonata," a title which is wholly without warrant.

In the obscured moonlight I supposed it was a native dog, but it was
white, and looked exactly like a large fat lamb.

But in this April's ivory moonlight I plodded on, desolate indeed, but
all undaunted, on this lone, unhallowed shore.

I think it was a little gray fairy with a rainbow scarf that came
tiptoeing along the last moonlight night and did it.

Strolling in the cool moonlight, I was attracted by a brilliant light
beneath the trees, and cautiously approached it.

I fled, and felt somewhat safer in my own room, where there was no
moonlight, and where the lamp was burning brightly.

Under the bright moonlight, and then under the starlight, we loped and
cantered mile after mile over the high prairie.

He was seized by a thirst to hear the adorable girl, who stood there
patiently, with her face lifted soft in moonlight.

CHAPTER XIX A DRIVE IN SUNLIGHT AND A DRIVE IN MOONLIGHT The fatal
time to come for her was in the Summer of that year.

Far less than half-way to the hamlet, very little beyond the bottom of
the hill, we must come forth into the moonlight.

Velvet-black was exactly the word, for by all the powers of moonlight
they were masked in the velvet of my camera-cloth.

I have seen it many times since then, by sunlight and by moonlight,
but never free from the impressions of that journey.

Down there at the end of the avenue, in the moonlight, were two young
people, with their arms around each other's waist.

It seemed to me that the mountains themselves, the lake, the
moonlight, were singing to me about things ineffably sweet.

Dost thou to-night behold Here, through the moonlight on this English
grass, The unfriendly palace in the Thracian wild?

By next morning I had only got about three miles away from the Kegs,
and to do that I travelled mostly in the moonlight.

His images may be obscure, from the moonlight haze in which they
float, but they are rarely so through faults of diction.

The night was dark with occasional gleams of moonlight between the
dents of the heavy clouds that scudded across the sky.

The room was quite light and there was a patch of moonlight on the
curtain and somehow that made me go and pull the cord.

Jack was standing in the middle of the stall, and by the moonlight Tip
could see he was smiling just as jovially as ever.

"Suddenly, as she spoke, I saw her white face grow whiter yet in the
moonlight, and her hand tightened upon my shoulder."

Very tender and quiet thoughts of Garth came to her this evening,
perhaps brought about by the associations of moonlight.

Tarzan came quietly above the unsuspecting beast and silently stalked
him until he came into a little patch of moonlight.

The moonlight glittered on the scabbard of his sabre, which he was
holding in his hand lest it should clank inopportunely.

Walking over ruins: at night: the arches of the solemn black
amphitheatre pouring moonlight on us--the moonlight of Italy!

Such sounds as breathed around like odorous winds _75 Of wakening
spring arose, Filling the chamber and the moonlight sky.

He lay down low to the race, whining eagerly, his splendid body
flashing forward, leap by leap, in the wan white moonlight.

I thought it was some trick of the moonlight, some weird effect of
shadow, but I kept looking, and it could be no delusion.

Look at the first movement, and judge whether there are not in it more
pale moonlight reveries than fresh morning thoughts.

moonlight, moonbeam, moonglade[obs3], moonshine; starlight, owl's
light, candlelight, rushlight, firelight; farthing candle.

He reddened - I saw that by the moonlight - dropped his hand from the
latch, and skulked off, a picture of mortified vanity.

That evening Vittoria lay with her head on Laura's lap, and the pearly
little crescent of her ear in moonlight by the window.

Then Princess Moonlight said she must make further trial of their love
before she would grant their request to interview her.

Irene held her hand into the moonlight, that the old lady might see
it, and told her all about it, at which she looked grave.

So sitting up; in the moonlight, with his back to Jane, his face
uplifted, and his hands clasped around one knee, Garth sang.

At last Clayton saw the immense muscles of Tarzan's shoulders and
biceps leap into corded knots beneath the silver moonlight.

The single description of a moonlight night in Pope's Iliad contains
more inaccuracies than can be found in all the Excursion.

I dream I'm chief of an Arab tribe, and we fly all white in the
moonlight on our mares, and hurry to the rescue of my darling!

His back was against the pale moonlight, he was half crouching, trying
vainly to raise himself with his arms tightly pinioned.

That look was to me like a net thrown into moonlighted water: it
brought nothing back but broken lights of a miraculous beauty.

Its murmur came "now," and "now" once more as they trod the gravel,
and "now," as the moonlight fell upon their father's sword.

The rock shone bright, the kirk no less That stands above the rock:
The moonlight steep'd in silentness The steady weathercock.

Since then I've begun to feel that the moonlight walks, balcony talks,
and daily adventures were something more to him than fun.

He mutter'd; 'Twas nor fay nor ghost I met upon the moonlight wold,
But living man of earthly mould.-- O dotage blind and gross!

The rock shone bright, the kirk no less, That stands above the rock:
The moonlight steeped in silentness The steady weathercock.

He opened the door to go out, but stopped on the sill, surprised by
the splendid moonlight, of such brilliance as is seldom seen.

"If you want a red rose," said the Tree, "you must build it out of
music by moonlight, and stain it with your own heart's-blood."

Nevermore will there be wanting Richness for the Ahto-nation, Never
while the moonlight brightens On the waters of the Northland.

The pale moonlight streamed through a shattered fanlight over the
door; the air was unwholesome and chilly, like that of a vault.

Eyes of blue--the Simla Hills Silvered with the moonlight hoar;
Pleading of the waltz that thrills, Dies and echoes round Benmore.

If you will patiently dance in our round, And see our moonlight
revels, go with us; If not, shun me, and I will spare your haunts.

But there is two hard things; that is, to bring the moonlight into a
chamber: for, you know, Pyramus and Thisbe meet by moonlight.

And Sir Lucan went to see what that cry betokened; and he saw by the
moonlight that pillers and robbers were come to rob the dead.

Her visage had the lustrous white of moonlight, and all her shape
undulated in a dress of flashing silver-white, wonderful to see.

The silvery mist was touched with the first rays of the moonlight, and
the same rays touched the tears that dropped from her eyes.

The log walls of the barn and its snow-covered roof, that looked as if
hewn out of some precious stone, sparkled in the moonlight.

Waternomee Falls, on Hurricane Creek, at Warren, are bordered with
rich moss where fairies used to dance and sing in the moonlight.

Leave them to reap the harvest of their toil, While fast in moonlight
the glad vessel glides, As if instinctive to its forest home.

She saw the door of her bedroom open, and the figure of her husband
crossed the stream of moonlight with a curiously careful tread.

He stood and waited, waited a long while, and the more silent the
moonlight, the more violently his heart beat, till it was painful.

Louder it seemed to ring in my ears, and the floating moats of dust to
take new shapes to the sound as they danced in the moonlight.

5 - Through the Moonlight The next evening the mummers were assembled
in the same spot, awaiting the entrance of the Turkish Knight.

It was a beautiful moonlight evening, and he sat watching the rising
and falling spray of the fountain, and listening to its murmur.

When Robin came out of the inn, he found young Richard Partington
sitting upon his horse in the white moonlight, awaiting his coming.

I could see along the floor, in the brilliant moonlight, my own
footsteps marked where I had disturbed the long accumulation of dust.

It was nearly two feet long, printed on calendered paper, with a
selection of colors so bright that they shone even in the moonlight.

John was asleep and I hated to waken him, so I kept still and watched
the moonlight on that undulating wall-paper till I felt creepy.

Holy to them grew the stillness: the ripple suffused in golden
moonlight: the dark edges of the leaves against superlative
brightness.

She raised her eyes to him; she could not check their filling; they
were like a river carrying moonlight on the smooth roll of a fall.

Its origin is due to Rellstab, who, in describing the first movement,
drew a picture of a small boat in the moonlight on Lake Lucerne.

As I sat by my bedroom window I saw three men in the moonlight down by
the lodge gate yonder, but I thought nothing of it at the time.

Alice did not blame Ned Currie for what had hap- pened in the
moonlight in the field, but felt that she could never marry another
man.

But what one loves most amid all these varied adventures is the
country, the woods, the rising of the sun, the twilight, the
moonlight.

Numerous silent shadows glided among the trees and occasionally a
blade of steel gleamed in the shadow as a ray of moonlight struck it.

The shore was one of sand and shells, their wet cheeks sparkling in
the moonlight; over it hung a promontory, a huge jut of black rock.

He took some pains in noting the exact spot where he had last seen
Emilia half in moonlight, and then dismissed her image peremptorily.

The moonlight was blocked out of the mouth of the cave, for Shere
Khan's great square head and shoulders were thrust into the entrance.

His red socks showed clearly in the moonlight against the white paving
of the terrace, and looked well with black patent-leather shoes.

In the moonlight which is always sad, as the light of the sun itself
is--as the light called human life is--at its coming and its going.

On leaving the table the husband and his friend began to play cards,
while I went out on the porch to look at the moonlight with madame.

Hard to live without the moonlight, Harder still without the sunshine;
Ukko's life is dark and dismal, When the Sun and Moon desert him.

Elegy to the Memory of an Unfortunate Lady WHAT beck'ning ghost, along
the moonlight shade Invites my steps, and points to yonder glade?

Thinking that, I walked calmly out beside him; sat down on the
parapet, in the brilliant moonlight, and quietly waited for him to
begin.

Whose stingings bade thy heart look further still, When, to the
moonlight walk by Henry led, Sweetly and sadly thou didst talk of
death?

I repeated Latin verses and fragments of old Spanish ballads till we
reached Seville, at about nine o'clock of a lovely moonlight night.

There had been a new moon on the previous evening; but, in the absence
of moonlight, the constellations shone with remarkable brilliancy.

MOONLIGHT Madame Julie Roubere was expecting her elder sister, Madame
Henriette Letore, who had just returned from a trip to Switzerland.

Little Toomai slept for some time, and when he waked it was brilliant
moonlight, and Kala Nag was still standing up with his ears cocked.

She disengaged herself from his hold, rose, and stood looking away to
where the still waters of the lake gleamed silver in the moonlight.

A walk through the streets by moonlight enabled us to see the market-
house, a stone building, considered to be the finest in Upper Canada.

But, Trotwood, come here,' getting me close to him, that he might
whisper very softly; 'why did she give him money, boy, in the
moonlight?

This is a tree for a melancholy poet--eh, Clotilde?--for him to come
on it by moonlight, after a scene with his mistress, or tales of her!

Sour pipe removed he held a shield of hand beside his lips that cooed
a moonlight nightcall, clear from anear, a call from afar, replying.

Then she turned, and her face was shown in the clear burst of
moonlight and by the lamp, which had now no quiver from Van Helsing's
nerves.

Princess Moonlight was for him the most beautiful woman in the world;
all others were dark beside her, and he thought of her night and day.

The fires [-smoulder-] {+smolder+} as a crown of jewels around us, and
smoke stands still in the air, in columns made blue by the moonlight.

I wondered if the men would grumble at the night-work; but the
steamboat arrived by seven, and it was bright moonlight when they went
at it.

Men and maidens, faint and famished, Perished in the cold and
darkness, From the absence of the sunshine, From the absence of the
moonlight.

At the moment when the ray of moonlight superposed itself, so to
speak, upon that inward radiance, the sleeping Bishop seemed as in a
glory.

And Bhanavar smote her palms in the moonlight, and exclaimed, 'How
then shall I escape this in me, which is a curse to them that approach
me?

The sea was as calm as a mirror, the evening mild and moonlight; and
so we remained on deck till late, watching the gambols of these
animals.

He took up his helmet and went out of the room, and Mrs. Boulte sat
till the moonlight streaked the floor, thinking and thinking and
thinking.

Amidst the pastoral scenes, and under the tranquil moonlight of the
New, the Old World, even in me, rude Bushman, claimed for a while its
son.

We saw him for a long time in the moonlight until he was only a small
speck moving swiftly among the boulders upon the side of a distant
hill.

The wind now veer'd to the Westward, and as the weather was fine and
Moonlight we kept standing close upon a Wind to the South-West all
night.

Wildeve by himself would have been merely an agitation; Wildeve added
to the dance, and the moonlight, and the secrecy, began to be a
delight.

For an instant he opened his eyes: the moon was up, and in the open
doorway, brightly lighted up by the moonlight, they were standing
talking.

There was a good bunch of it on the distaff attached to the spinning-
wheel, and in the moonlight it shone like - what shall i say it was
like?

Just then the noise of horses topped the rise, and four or five riders
came in sight in the moonlight and swept at full gallop down the
slope.

Quite a new, sweet face with black eyebrows and mustaches peeped up at
him from her sable furs- so close and yet so distant- in the
moonlight.

While I thus spoke, my uncle's eyes were fixed upon a corner of the
street, where a figure, half in shade, half in moonlight, stood
motionless.

It was a very weird and desolate place; and everything looked dark and
dismal, under the moonlight, as it streamed between stormy black
clouds.

Having passed the wall, we took our way to the house, taking care to
keep in the shadows of the trees on the lawn when the moonlight shone
out.

Princess Moonlight then sent word to the First Knight that she
requested him to bring her the stone bowl which had belonged to Buddha
in India.

When you lifted your head in the moonlight and gazed long and
earnestly at me--Ah, those dear eyes!--your look suddenly made me
self-conscious.

The play done, we home by coach, it being moonlight, and got well
home, and I to my chamber to settle some papers, and so to supper and
to bed.

Flanking it were two great moonstones of lesser size, whose glowing,
beside the glory of the sunstone, was like the silvery sheen of
moonlight.

Either by accident, or that the moon was sensible of the prayer of
Medoro, the cloud broke away, and the moonlight burst forth as bright
as day.

Such are the ``Mountain of Miseries''; the antediluvian novel of
``Shalum and Hilpa''; the ``Reflections by Moonlight on the Divine
Perfections.

When we had walked about a mile by moonlight, we perceived a horseman
behind us, who coming up, wished us good even, and asked which way we
went?

In the moonlight shining clear he led his men on toward Limors, with
helmets laced, in hauberks clad, and from their necks the shields were
hung.

Then the night grew gray towards the dawn and all hoped that the
danger was over--that Princess Moonlight would not have to leave them
after all.

"In the moonlight," went on Kerner, softly, "we will sit under the
skylight with our guitar and sing away the false delights of pride and
money."

There was no sign whatever from inside the house--nothing but the
moonlight strip on the high wall, and the blackness of Amir Nath's
Gully behind.

Characterization is still rudimentary, and altogether the plays
present not so much a picture of reality as 'a faint moonlight
reflection of life.

MOONLIGHT ON THE SEA O vapory moon of spring!--would that one plunge
into ocean Could win me renewal of life as a part of thy light on the
waters!

He stood still, looking out across the moonlight, his head a little
raised and his ears spread like fans, up to the great folds of the
Garo hills.

Are they dancing--grotesque spectres--a fantastic minuet in the
moonlight, amid the cypresses of a cemetery, along the pathways
bordered by graves?

IN A CEMETERY AT NIGHT This light of the moon that plays on the water
I pour for the dead, Differs nothing at all from the moonlight of
other years.

It came downstairs as I went up," said the trooper, "and crossed the
moonlighted window with a loose black mantle on; I noticed a deep
fringe to it.

he rushed forward, but the moonlight of no moon faded, and there was
nothing, and he dropped on his knees sobbing in the dusk by the Lake
of Cranes.

His brown, sweat-streaked, muscular body, glistening in the moonlight,
shone supple and graceful among the uncouth, awkward, hairy brutes
about him.

A voice replied, telling him to keep out of the moonlight or he would
get some lead in him, and at the same time a bullet whistled close by
his arm.

The doors of the barn were wide open; I could see for four miles into
the open country, distinctly and yet not, as it always is on a
moonlight night.

And he said all this - I knew, as I saw his face in the moonlight -
that I might understand he was resolved to recompense himself by using
his power.

The moonlight threw half the lawn into shadow, and just disappearing
in this shadow was something-- something of a brown color, marked with
sections!

The tears which fell from her wan eyes _415 Glimmered among the
moonlight dew: Her deep hard sobs and heavy sighs Their echoes in the
darkness threw.

They could not get back past the camp without the watchman both
hearing and seeing them; for it was now fine moonlight the greater
part of the night.

They are much hampered by the moon, as it shines upon their shields,
and they are handicapped by their helmets, too, as they glitter in the
moonlight.

Mr. Francis Osbaldistone," cries the girl's voice through the
moonlight, "should not whistle his favourite airs when he wishes to
remain undiscovered.

It was very dark and empty in the passage, as though everything had
been removed; he crept on tiptoe into the parlour which was flooded
with moonlight.

She could catch glimpses of tree tops, and beyond, the fields, half-
drowned in the fog that lay reeking in the moonlight along the course
of the river.

With streaming coat tails and shiny silk hat Professor Archimedes Q.
Porter fled through the moonlight close upon the heels of Mr. Samuel
T. Philander.

It's surely no great cause of alarm that Heathcliff should take a
moonlight saunter on the moors, or even lie too sulky to speak to us
in the hay-loft.

And another said: "I saw him once by moonlight standing tall and black
amidst the ruins of a shrine in the old kingdom of Amarna, doing a
deed by night.

This pillar of cloud shed sunlight by day and moonlight by night, so
that Israel, who were surrounded by clouds, might distinguish between
night and day.

A first thought was that Indians were making an assault, but when the
occupants peered cautiously into the moonlight the fields were seen to
be deserted.

The walls are hung with large mirrors; the lights were faint: but so
much the greater was the effect of the moonlight which streamed
through the windows.

Out of the long black shadows of the solitary trees of the park, and
through low yellow moonlight, they passed suddenly into the muffed
ways of the wood.

Then Princess Moonlight told the old man that if she was forced to go
to the Palace in obedience to the Emperor's order, she would vanish
from the earth.

Once, in the moonlight, Cosette stooped to pick up something on the
ground, her bodice fell apart and permitted a glimpse of the beginning
of her throat.

For of these moonlight nights, it was his wont to mount to the main-
mast head, and stand a look-out there, with the same precision as if
it had been day.

We mean, of course, the astral lamp proper - the lamp of Argand, with
its original plain ground-glass shade, and its tempered and uniform
moonlight rays.

With one gleam of moonlight we should have riddled him with balls;
but, in the darkness, he won to the corner of the Castle, and vanished
from our sight.

Fí al-Kamar," which Lane renders "in the moonlight" It seems to me
that the allusion is to the Comorin Islands; but the sequel speaks
simply of an island.

We walked very slowly home, Mr. Wickfield, Agnes, and I - Agnes and I
admiring the moonlight, and Mr. Wickfield scarcely raising his eyes
from the ground.

They were praising the breadth of the columns of St. Peter's, Tivoly,
Vesuvius, Castellamare, and Cassines, the roses of Genoa, the Coliseum
by moonlight.

I lay awake and watched the moonlight shining over the barn and the
stacks and the pond, and the windmill making its old dark shadow
against the blue sky.

"Vara right, vara right--that's what I hae aften said; a kail-blade,
or a colliflour, glances sae glegly by moonlight, it's like a leddy in
her diamonds."

For he suffereth it not if a gnat wanteth to buzz, or even two of
them; also the lanes maketh he lonesome, so that the moonlight is
afraid there at night.

It was brilliant moonlight, and the soft effect of the light over the
sea and sky, merged together in one great silent mystery, was
beautiful beyond words.

In the daytime they lay still under the covert of the hollow and woody
places, but in the night they marched by moonlight, the moon being
then at the full.

It was now near daybreak, and there was a pale eastern gleam mingled
with the fading moonlight, so that objects could be discovered with
some distinctness.

In moonlight I have seen these sandhills, a few miles away, shining
like snowy mountains, being refracted to an unnatural altitude by the
bright moonlight.

Gudrun was swaying violently in her boat, the agitated water shook
with transient lights, she realised that it was faintly moonlight, and
that he was gone.

At last a ruddy glow shone before them here and there through the
trees; a little farther and they came to the open glade, now bathed in
the pale moonlight.

The sight of the old church, and the graves about it in the moonlight,
and the dark trees whispering among themselves, made her more
thoughtful than before.

In the floods of moonlight gaunt shapes towered above; in the ensuing
darkness only the oily glitter of the tide occupied the foreground of
the night-piece.

The moonlight and the reflection from the snow shone brightly through
the little window, but Ulrich longed for darkness, and buried his face
in the pillows.

He died on my shoulder the third cold night: There is a rose in the
garden; I dragged his body all through the moonlight: And the bird
sings over the roses.

He only grasped his rifle more firmly, and fastened his eyes upon the
narrow opening, through which he gazed upon the moonlight view with
increasing anxiety.

Whilst she abstractedly watched them spinning and fluctuating in the
increasing moonlight she suddenly heard her name whispered by a voice
over her shoulder.

"Come into the courtyard with me, it's a beautiful moonlight night; we
will walk up and down arm in arm under the trees, while you tell me
your pitiful tale."

I wandered, on a moonlight night, through the grass-grown enclosure
within: here I stumbled over a marble hearth, and there over a fallen
fragment of cornice.

The botanist touches my arm and nods towards a pretty little lead-
paned window, through which we see a village sleeping under cloudy
moonlight go flashing by.

He had been to several families that morning in hopes of procuring
some addition to their number, but it was moonlight and every body was
full of engagements.

Though the sound overpowers, Sing again, with your dear voice
revealing _20 A tone Of some world far from ours, Where music and
moonlight and feeling Are one.

Be- fore him in the moonlight the tiny stream ran down over stones,
and he began to think of the men of old times who like himself had
owned flocks and lands.

No moonlight touched the features of this unearthly visitant, but
scanty as was the illumination we could see the gleaming teeth-- and
the wildly glaring eyes.

They tried moonlight walks under the trees, in the sweet warmth of the
summer evenings: the poetry of mist-covered beaches; the excitement of
public festivals.

They fight till set of sun, and then slacken their armour to waft a
ballad to their beloved by moonlight, covered with stains of battle as
they are, and weary!

The grass under their feet became trodden away, and the hard, beaten
surface of the sod, when viewed aslant towards the moonlight, shone
like a polished table.

The spell that she had thrown over him in the moonlight dance made it
impossible for a man having no strong puritanic force within him to
keep away altogether.

You may bring him to the little back-gate; and I shall have pleasure,
in the meanwhile, in looking on the bushes and evergreens by the
bright frosty moonlight.

I have seen her image in the moonlight often, as I now see you; except
that I never held her in my arms; it stood between the little grated
window and the door.

I heard it on the Upper Irrawaddy one clear, moonlight night, and a
Colassie--a deck-hand--leaped from the top deck of the steamer aboard
which I was traveling!

I wakened when it was bright moonlight two nights ago and felt as if
the Magic was filling the room and making everything so splendid that
I couldn't lie still.

Yeobright and Eustacia looked at each other for one instant, as if
each had in mind those few moments during which a certain moonlight
scene was common to both.

The moonlight revealed glimpses of one district half in ruins; and
some pinnacles of mosques and minarets shot up here and there,
glistening in the silvery rays.

There must be something special, which causes dogs to howl in the
night, and especially during moonlight, in that remarkable and
melancholy manner called baying.

Eustacia had not been long indoors after her look at the moonlight
when a soft footstep came up to the house, and Thomasin was announced
by the woman downstairs.

A strange beautiful smile spread like sunshine over his face, and an
answering smile, but at the same time a questioning one, spread like
moonlight over Irene's.

And if you take my advice, you will tell your kind, sensible old aunt
the whole story, omitting of course all moonlight details, and consult
her about this plan.

`Abruptly, I dashed down the match, and, knocking one of the people
over in my course, went blundering across the big dining-hall again,
out under the moonlight.

After feeding their horses abundantly and feasting themselves from the
fat larder of their host, they saddled their steeds and resumed their
journey by moonlight.

He released Miss Bonner's trembling moist hand, and as he continued
standing, she moved to the door, after once following the line of his
eyes into the moonlight.

She saw the long shaft of moonlight broken to zigzags of mellow
lightning, and wavering back to steadiness; dark San Giorgio, and the
sheen of the Dogana's front.

All the friends and relations of the old couple were present, and
great was their enjoyment of the festivities held to celebrate the
naming of Princess Moonlight.

The Sea Which paves the desert streets of Venice laughs In light, and
music; widowed Genoa wan By moonlight spells ancestral epitaphs,
Murmuring, 'Where is Doria?

Then the stream of moonlight has swelled into a lake, and then Lady
Dedlock for the first time moves, and rises, and comes forward to a
table for a glass of water.

Behind me lay the yard, vividly black-and-white in the moonlight, and
the pile of wood and faggots on which Moreau and his mutilated victims
lay, one over another.

We rode back to our tents by a bright moonlight, very dusty and tired,
and heartily glad to breathe the cool fresh air, after the stifling
ordeal we had undergone.

We rode back to our tents by a bright moonlight, very dusty and tired,
and heartily glad to breathe the cool fresh air, after the stifling
ordeal we had undergone.

Whenever it is moonlight the nights are passed in singing and dancing,
beating drums, blowing horns, and the population of whole villages
thus congregate together.

On the neck lay a pale reflection like moonlight; the same faint
lustre touched the train of thin clouds from which rose and bowed this
vision of the Evening Star.

I want you for a moment to picture the One Man and the One Woman
facing each other in the Garden of Eden, or in the moonlight--wherever
it was--if you like better.

The moon is witness my heart is held * By a moonlight brow of the
brightest blee: I reckt not to see me by Love ensnared * Till ensnared
before I could reck or see.

I had the piece of water dragged by moonlight, in presence of a couple
of our men, and the pocket pistol was brought up before it had been
there half-a-dozen hours.

He made bold to row her around the quieter bays, and one moonlight
evening he took her to Devil's Rock, or Devil's Pulpit, where he told
her the story of the place.

I had already encountered some of these creatures,-- once during my
moonlight flight from the Leopard-man, and once during my pursuit by
Moreau on the previous day.

Some trees grew in the center of the clearing, but their bark was
rubbed away, and the white wood beneath showed all shiny and polished
in the patches of moonlight.

And with these apparently meaningless words he turned to the shaken
Boyle and, taking his arm, began to walk him up and down in the
moonlight, talking in low tones.

But only a very few yards away, and now the moonlight was full upon
her, her figure must have been distinctly silhouetted against the
silvery background of the sea.

Esmeralda, cowering still closer to her mistress, took one frightened
glance toward the little square of moonlight, just as the lioness
emitted a low, savage snarl.

But then to her surprise she saw the huge animal being slowly drawn
back through the window, and in the moonlight beyond she saw the heads
and shoulders of two men.

The three were walking on the bridge at Limburg on the Lahn, where the
shadow of a stone bishop is thrown by the moonlight on the water
brawling over slabs of slate.

It was the most romantic thing I ever saw--the river, the bridge of
boats, the great fortress opposite, moonlight everywhere, and music
fit to melt a heart of stone.

The long rows of teeth on the bulwarks glistened in the moonlight; and
like the white ivory tusks of some huge elephant, vast curving icicles
depended from the bows.

Through the window of the chamber he looked back inside; there stood
Siddhartha, not moving from his spot, his arms folded, moonlight
reflecting from his bare shins.

He was laughing with his red mouth, the sharp white teeth glinted in
the moonlight when he turned to look back over the belt of trees, to
where the dogs were barking.

Next night we rode back by moonlight with matter for a year of
laughter, singing like two Arabian poets praises of dark and fair,
challengeing one to rival the other.

The moonlight outside the woods gave that dimness of atmosphere within
which is more bewildering than darkness, because the eyes cannot adapt
themselves to it so well.

Presently he proposed to accompany him in a short walk on one of the
bridges, as it was a moonlight airy night; and Richard readily
consenting, they went out together.

At length, weary and sad, she sat down upon a stone, and continued
sitting nine days and nights, in the open air, under the sunlight and
moonlight and falling showers.

Though the sound had certainly come in through the open window from
this direction, the whole scene was still and empty under the morning
light as under the moonlight.

To the left the roof of a coach-house shone white in the moonlight, in
front the black shadow of the garden wall was visible through the
tangled branches of the trees.

Fortunately we were favoured by a bright moonlight; in a dark or
stormy night we should not with the greatest precaution and skill have
been able to avoid a collision.

He rushed down, just as he was, in his bare feet, opened the window,
sprang out into the snow, and ran down the lane, where he could see a
dark figure in the moonlight.

Inside the fort lay the dead as they had fallen, and they could hardly
be distinguished from their living comrades, sleeping soundly side by
side in the pale moonlight.

So she took the phial from him and led forth the Ass, and the twain
mounted the Ass and descended the slopes of the mountain in moonlight;
and Shibli Bagarag said, 'Lo!

Eustacia once more lifted her deep stormy eyes to the moonlight, and,
sighing that tragic sigh of hers which was so much like a shudder,
entered the shadow of the roof.

Sad and pale the Autumn moonlight Through the sighing foliage streams;
And each morning, midnight shadow, Shadow of my sorrow seems; Strive,
0 heart, forget thine idol!

Let us laugh, and make our mirth, At the shadows of the earth, As dogs
bay the moonlight clouds, Which, like spectres wrapped in shrouds,
Pass o'er night in multitudes.

An iron bell-pull hung by the side, and below it, on a small brass
plate, neatly engraved in square capital letters, they could read by
the aid of moonlight MR. BADGER.

There is no rest for the animals; in the day-time they are tracked up,
and on moonlight nights the drinking-places are watched, and an
unremitting warfare is carried on.

The frill of her nightgown below the left breast: There is a rose
that's ready; Had fall'n like a cloud of the moonlighted West: There's
a rose that's ready for clipping.

They found the ashes scattered by the wind, but the peas and lentils
had sprouted, and grown sufficiently above the ground, to guide them
in the moonlight along the path.

It is true she sang "Meet me by moonlight," and "I've been roaming;"
for mortals must share the fashions of their time, and none but the
ancients can be always classical.

Into the clearing where the moonlight streamed, they poured in a
silvery flood; and in the centre of the clearing stood Buck,
motionless as a statue, waiting their coming.

When I came in view again the cloud had passed, and the moonlight
struck so brilliantly that I could see Lucy half reclining with her
head lying over the back of the seat.

They plagued one another in corners; they met in the moonlight beside
the haystack and gave each other bruises on the legs, under the table,
with their heavy nailed boots.

Finally, after studying the map carefully in the moonlight which now
flooded the room, I pointed out a waterway far to the north of us
which also seemed to lead to Helium.

day; sunshine; light of day, light of heaven; moonlight, starlight,
sun &c. (luminary) 432 light; daylight, broad daylight, noontide
light; noontide, noonday, noonday sun.

It's a nasty night, my boy," said the old driver, in much the same
cheery tone that he would have used had he been informing Toby that it
was a beautiful moonlight evening.

They ran inland across the waste to warm themselves, then turned to
look at the glory of the full tide under the moonlight and the intense
black shadows of the furze bushes.

The brilliant moonlight gleamed upon bared teeth, as I could see, even
at that distance, even in that quick, agonized glance, and it gleamed
upon the crescent-shaped knives.

Lore-ley, combing her yellow locks against the night-cloud, beheld old
Gottlieb's rafts endlessly stealing on the moonlight through the iron
pass she peoples above St. Goar.

About two in the morning I was seated by the window, all being dark
save for the moonlight outside, when I heard steps behind me, and
there was my wife in her dressing-gown.

Presently the sounds of snarling, spitting, and screaming ended, and
an Opossum climbed out to the far end of a branch, where the moonlight
shone on his grey fur like silver.

He had his opportunity one moonlight night, not far from the castle,
and peppered Kirby with shot from a fowling-piece at, some say, five
paces' distance, if not point-blank.

Black figures strolled about listlessly, pouring water on the glow,
whence proceeded a sound of hissing; steam ascended in the moonlight,
the beaten nigger groaned somewhere.

He ceased not slumbering till the moon rose, when his head slipped
from off the tomb and he lay on his back, with limbs outstretched, his
face shining bright in the moonlight.

Opening one of the windows after that, he looked out into the
moonlight, and told me that the pavement was a solemnly empty as the
pavement of any cathedral at that same hour.

In each of their gardens the moonlight, copying the art of Hubert
Robert, had scattered its broken staircases of white marble, its
fountains of water and gates temptingly ajar.

Have you seen that awful den of hellish infamy, with the very
moonlight alive with grisly shapes, and every speck of dust that
whirls in the wind a devouring monster in embryo?

He reminded her of their first encounter in the Otradnoe avenue, and
how she had been unable to sleep that moonlight night, and told her
how he had involuntarily overheard her.

After we had lain down for the night the moon rose and I could not
enough admire the beauty of the tropical foliage, with the silvery
moonlight incrusting every branch and leaf.

It was the middle-watch: a fair moonlight; the seamen were standing in
a cordon, extending from one of the fresh-water butts in the waist, to
the scuttle-butt near the taffrail.

Looking over the damp sod in the direction of the sun, a glistening
ripple of gossamer webs was visible to their eyes under the luminary,
like the track of moonlight on the sea.

His head and hands were burning like fire, yet it was very, very cold;
but little snow lay here in the valley, and in many places the
moonlight showed patches of bare, dark turf.

Too capricious and imperious in all she does to be the cause of much
surprise in those about her as to anything she does, this woman,
loosely muffled, goes out into the moonlight.

How sweet it was to see the clouds race by, and the passing gleams of
the moonlight between the scudding clouds crossing and passing, like
the gladness and sorrow of a man's life.

Lord Southery, a bizarre figure, my traveling coat wrapped about him,
and supported by his solicitor, who was almost as pale as himself,
emerged from the vault into the moonlight.

The moonlight had broadened and brightened, the wind had driven off
the clouds and itself died fitfully away, when he came round again to
the artificial lake in front of the house.

No one being in sight there, they kept on to the next corner, and
shrank from the moonlight, which lay exceedingly bright over the whole
south front, and along a part of the street.

When Princess Moonlight became aware that a stranger was looking at
her she tried to escape from the room, but the Emperor caught her and
begged her to listen to what he had to say.

It was impossible, among the long and irregular lines of Gothic
casements, which now looked ghastly white in the moonlight, to
distinguish that of the apartment which she inhabited.

I remember creeping noiselessly into the great hall where the little
people were sleeping in the moonlight--that night Weena was among them
--and feeling reassured by their presence.

Far away on the path we saw Sir Henry looking back, his face white in
the moonlight, his hands raised in horror, glaring helplessly at the
frightful thing which was hunting him down.

Wrapped in Henrietta, she slept through the joltings of the carriage,
the grinding of the wheels, the blowing of the horn, the flashes of
the late moonlight and the kindling of dawn.

As I passed the Methodist Church, I saw three white figures ahead of
me, pacing up and down under the arching maple trees, where the
moonlight filtered through the lush June foliage.

It was the midst of summer, and the moon was at full, and the night so
clear without any clouds, that there was danger lest the arms
glistening in the moonlight should discover them.

Quite late at night she was visited by the Opossum, the Native Bear,
and the Nightjar, who entered by the open window, and, sitting in the
moonlight, conversed about the day's events.

They simply seemed to fade into the rays of the moonlight and pass out
through the window, for I could see outside the dim, shadowy forms for
a moment before they entirely faded away.

Then it suddenly lengthened, and, craning my head to the left, I saw a
lithe, black-clad form, surmounted by a Yellow face, sketchy in the
moonlight, pressed against the window-panes!

The ticking of the clock, hidden in the shadow, could be heard
distinctly, and through the open window drifted in the sweet smell of
hay and of woods, together with the soft moonlight.

He stood there for a moment in the moonlight with his delicate hooked
nose set a little askew, and his mica eyes glittering without a wink,
then, with a curt Good night, he strode off.

Some of them, like _Our Love is not a Fading Earthly Flower_, _O
Moonlight Deep and Tender_, _To the Dandelion_, and _The First Snow-
Fall_ are exquisite lyrics of nature and sentiment.

She came forward quickly into the moonlight, and, as soon as he saw
her, he said, with that air of consummate gallantry he always wore
when speaking to her,-- "At your service, Madame!

Between moonlight and morning, riding with Temple and Captain Bulsted
on either side of me, I drew rein under the red Grange windows, tired,
and in love with its air of sleepy grandeur.

Her relatives were at hand; they hung by while he led her to the
stairs and down into a spacious moonlight that laid the traceries of
the bare tree-twigs clear-black on grass and stone.

Then I caught the patient's eye and followed it, but could trace
nothing as it looked into the moonlight sky, except a big bat, which
was flapping its silent and ghostly way to the west.

In another instant I was carried beyond the crest of the Golden
Cliffs, out over the Valley Dor, where, six thousand feet below me,
the Lost Sea of Korus lay shimmering in the moonlight.

From her temples beams the moonlight, From her breast, the gleam of
sunshine, From her forehead shines the rainbow, On her neck, the seven
starlets, And the Great Bear from her shoulder.

Within from window and from lodge, the rout Look forth, and will the
joust by moonlight view, Which streams from underneath a covering
cloud; Albeit the furious rain beats fast and loud.

It tells the approach of a mystic form, A white courser bears the
shadowy sprite; More thin they are than the mists of the mountain,
When the clear moonlight sleeps on the waveless lake.

Except for the pale glow from the handling-machine and the bars and
patches of white moonlight the pit was in darkness, and, except for
the clinking of the handling-machine, quite still.

A full flood of moonlight burnished the knightly river in glittering
scales, and plates, and rings, as headlong it rolled seaward on from
under crag and banner of old chivalry and rapine.

He went down into the wainscoted parlor first, and began to consider
whether he would not have his horse saddled and go home by the
moonlight, and give up caring for earthly consequences.

Only a bare half-hour before I saw you battling with the plant men I
was standing in the moonlight upon the banks of a broad river that
taps the eastern shore of Earth's most blessed land.

The Second Knight told his parents that he needed change of air for
his health, for he was ashamed to tell them that love for the Princess
Moonlight was the real cause of his leaving them.

And it seldom happened that they did not have one "given" them; for
nearly every old Breton grandame has, at least once in her life, seen
the "korrigans" dance by moonlight on the heather.

She remembered, however, that at night she spun only in the moonlight,
and concluded that must be why there was no sweet, bee-like humming:
the old lady might be somewhere in the darkness.

There'd just come a sharp snowfall from the north, and the moonlight
shot over the flying edge of the rear-cloud; and I saw Sedgett with a
stick in his hand; but the gentleman had no stick.

Itinerant street music twittered along the Piazza; officers walked
arm-in-arm; now in moonlight bright as day, now in a shadow black as
night: distant figures twinkled with the alternation.

Our old yeomanry farmers--returning to their beds over ferny commons
under bright moonlight from a neighbour's harvest-home, eased their
bubbling breasts with a ready roar not unakin to it.

CHAPTER XIX BARCHESTER BY MOONLIGHT There was much cause for grief and
occasional perturbation of spirits in the Stanhope family, but yet
they rarely seemed to be grieved or to be disturbed.

Passing a low-vaulted dungeon-room, they wound up stairs hewn in the
rock, and came to a door, obedient to her touch, which displayed a
chamber faintly misted by a solitary bar of moonlight.

"From just below; and I am not at all afraid of being out late when it
is moonlight: I will run over to Hay for you with pleasure, if you
wish it: indeed, I am going there to post a letter."

The figure stopped, and at the moment a ray of moonlight fell upon the
masses of driving clouds, and showed in startling prominence a dark-
haired woman, dressed in the cerements of the grave.

Each night he wandered about in search of adventure, killing
Prussians, sometimes here and sometimes there, galloping through
deserted fields, in the moonlight, a lost Uhlan, a hunter of men.

Ilmarinen thus made answer: "I cannot believe thy story, Cannot trust
thy tale of wonder, Till I see the blooming fir-tree, With its many
emerald branches, With its Bear and golden moonlight.

As I did so I saw stretching far below me the beautiful vista of rocky
gorge, and level, cacti-studded flat, wrought by the moonlight into a
miracle of soft splendor and wondrous enchantment.

breathe on their slumber, All softly in ear, The musical number They
slumber'd to hear - For what can awaken An angel so soon * The wild
bee will not sleep in the shade if there be moonlight.

With wide-open eyes she gazed at the moonlight and the shadows,
expecting every moment to see his dead face, and she felt that the
silence brooding over the house and within it held her fast.

When we went upstairs to bed, he produced the whole seven
shillings'worth, and laid it out on my bed in the moonlight, saying:
'There you are, young Copperfield, and a royal spread you've got.

As they near the Osmo-borders, Ilmarinen hastens forward That be may
behold the wonder, Spies the Bear Within the fir-top, Sitting on its
emerald branches, Spies the gleam of golden moonlight.

cried Quilp, looking up at the old gateway, and showing in the
moonlight like some monstrous image that had come down from its niche
and was casting a backward glance at its old house, 'faster!

He communicated to me confidentially that he did not like to seem to
slink away from the others, who had made up their minds to stop and
sup; so we would drive home by moonlight, singing songs.

A mariner sat in the shrouds one night, The wind was piping free; Now
bright, now dimmed, was the moonlight pale, And the phospher gleamed
in the wake of the whale, As it floundered in the sea.

In the first place, not less than a drachma every month for torches;
so that also all, when they went out of an evening, were wont to say,
"Boy, don't buy a torch, for the moonlight is beautiful.

Now, they had passage over the billows smoothly, and soon the length
of the sea was darkened with two high rocks, and between them there
was a narrow channel of the sea, roughened with moonlight.

The shadow of the masts and rigging, with the never-furled riding-
sail, rolled to and fro on the heaving deck in the moonlight; and the
pile of fish by the stern shone like a dump of fluid silver.

To hear the yelp of the coyote, you must lie alone in the sage brush
near the pool in the hollow of the low hills by moonlight; it will
never reach your ears through the bars of the menagerie cage.

My lamp seemed to be of little effect in the brilliant moonlight, but
I was glad to have it with me, for there was a dread loneliness in the
place which chilled my heart and made my nerves tremble.

Young and aged talked and wondered, Well reflected, long debated, How
to live without the moonlight, Live without the silver sunshine, In
the cold and cheerless Northland, In the homes of Kalevala.

In that more peaceful state, I have imagined her, in the moonlight,
coming to me and taking me out to show me that the home of her married
life was full of her loving remembrance of her lost father.

[FN#227] Then he gripped the line firmly and haled it in but the dog
had the better of him and dragged him to the very marge of the
moonlight; so the fisherman waxed afraid and began to cry, "Alack!

Past Kew and Hammersmith, on the cool smooth water; across Putney
reach; through Battersea bridge; and the City grew around them, and
the shadows of great mill-factories slept athwart the moonlight.

For the weather steadily hardened and sharpened; that night the ice of
the lake, glimmering in the moonlight, was like a marble floor, and
they had begun to dance and skate on it before it was dark.

In front of the procession as it passed out unchallenged was the deep
gorge of the Cedron, with Olivet beyond, its dressing of cedar and
olive trees darker of the moonlight silvering all the heavens.

Early in January the royalists had surprised the strong chateau of
Carpen, in the neighbourhood of the city, upon which occasion the
garrison were all hanged by moonlight on the trees in the orchard.

Bright fell the moonlight on pillar and court and shattered wall,
hiding all their rents and imperfections in its silver garment, and
clothing their hoar majesty with the peculiar glory of the night.

Tess, however, had undergone such painful experiences of this kind in
her father's house, that the discovery of their condition spoilt the
pleasure she was beginning to feel in the moonlight journey.

And Mr. Kirsch having lost all his money by this time, followed his
master out into the moonlight, where the illuminations were winking
out and the transparency over our mission was scarcely visible.

CHAPTER X MY GENTLEMAN ON THE ROAD AGAIN Near a milestone, under the
moonlight, crouched the figure of a woman, huddled with her head
against her knees, and careless hair falling to the summer's dust.

Then great Ukko walked the heavens, To the border of the cloudlets, In
his purple-colored vestments, In his silver-tinselled sandals, Seeking
for the golden moonlight, Looking for the silver sunshine.

By the way, the Little Trianon would suit us beautifully to live in,
and you might walk in the gardens in the moonlight and think you were
in some English shrubbery; It is laid out in English fashion.

It was so light that he could see the moonlight reflected from the
metal harness disks and from the eyes of the horses, who looked round
in alarm at the noisy party under the shadow of the porch roof.

I thought of him very much after I went to bed, and raised myself, I
recollect, to look at him where he lay in the moonlight, with his
handsome face turned up, and his head reclining easily on his arm.

Natasha began, and without replying to Sonya's words of comfort she
got into bed, and long after her candle was out lay open-eyed and
motionless, gazing at the moonlight through the frosty windowpanes.

Now it was a moonlight night and the moon shone in full sheen upon the
chest and lit up the closet with its light, seeing this he sat down on
his purchase and fell to eating of the food with both hands.

AFTER LONG ABSENCE The garden that once I loved, and even the hedge of
the garden,-- All is changed and strange: the moonlight only is
faithful;-- The moon along remembers the charm of the time gone by!

I looked round for Vivian's answer; but ere I spoke he had spurred
from my side, and I saw the wild dogs slinking back from the hoofs of
his horse as he rode at speed on the sward through the moonlight.

Did he not try to stop old Peter Stuyvesant from rowing through Hell
Gate one moonlight night, and did not that tough old soldier put
something at his shoulder that Satan thought must be his wooden leg?

During the night, which was a bright moonlight one, we reconnoitred
close up, and found a large number of huts which had been abandoned,
and the whole rebel force had fallen back into and about the fort.

He watched a patch of moonlight cross the floor of their lodging, and,
as sometimes happens when the mind is overtaxed, he fell asleep for
the rest of the room, but kept awake for the patch of moonlight.

Spake the wise, old Wainamoinen: "Senseless blacksmith of the ages,
Vainly dost thou swing thy hammer, Vainly rings thy mighty anvil;
Silver will not gleam as sunshine, Not of gold is born the moonlight!

After I had retired for the night I have seen him from my window
standing in the moonlight on the brink of the bluff overlooking the
Hudson with his arms stretched out to the heavens as though in appeal.

As I looked after his figure, crossing the waste in the moonlight, I
saw him turn his face towards a strip of silvery light upon the sea,
and pass on, looking at it, until he was a shadow in the distance.

Then, after hovering in apparent uncertainty about the territories of
Juliers and Limburg, he suddenly, on a bright moonlight night, crossed
the Meuse with his whole army, in the neighbourhood of Stochem.

And then the moonlight flooded the cave, and there before me lay my
own body as it had been lying all these hours, with the eyes staring
toward the open ledge and the hands resting limply upon the ground.

But after her maid had left her, Pauline switched off the electric
light and, drawing back the curtain, stood for a long while at her
window, looking out at the peaceful English scene bathed in moonlight.

I looked, and again the shadow came in sight, and was moving across
the grazing meadow (the meadow looked whitish in the moonlight) like a
big blur; it was clear that it was a wild animal, a fox or a wolf.

was reiterated, somewhat sharply: and Mr. Pericles, peering over the
collar of the bear, with half an eye, continued the sentence, in the
manner of one sent thereby farther from its meaning: "Ze moonlight?

A run brought them in a few minutes to the other side of the ground in
front of the bottomless well, and a few yards from it, in a moonlight
almost as broad as daylight, they saw what they had come to see.

The inhabitants of more southern regions have no idea of the
extraordinary clearness and brilliancy of a northern moonlight night;
it seems almost as if the moon had borrowed a portion of the sun's
lustre.

On the sword-point gleams the moonlight, On the blade the sun is
shining, On the hilt the bright stars twinkle, On the edge a horse is
neighing, On the handle plays a kitten, On the sheath a dog is
barking.

At last the cold sent him homeward, and leaving the street, on the
moonlight side of Piccadilly he met his friend patrolling with his
head up and that swing of the feet proper to men who are chanting
verses.

But as for me, I went back also, and found a pick and a mattock in the
goat-house, and came back in the moonlight and scraped the snow away,
and dug a pit, and buried the poor damsel there with all her gear.

By that path, patched now with pools of moonlight, Lord Southery had
passed upon his bier, with the sun to light his going; by that path
several generations of Stradwicks had gone to their last resting-
place.

On the morrow I was sad; partly because you were poorly, and partly
that I wished my father knew, and approved of my excursions: but it
was beautiful moonlight after tea; and, as I rode on, the gloom
cleared.

All night he lay awake in the big chintz bedroom at May's side,
watching the moonlight slant along the carpet, and thinking of Ellen
Olenska driving home across the gleaming beaches behind Beaufort's
trotters.

"The full moon had risen high when we left the last of the isles
behind us; and late at night we emerged from the St. Lawrence, and
arrived at Kingston, the tin roofs of which shone brightly in the
moonlight."

When they went away together, in the waning moonlight, and I looked
after them, comparing their departure in my mind with Martha's, I saw
that she held his arm with both her hands, and still kept close to
him.

Two of the exiles met him, probably near some of the cairns in the
valley of the Teivy; and there, in the battle of Mynydd Carn, fiercely
fought through the dusk into a moonlight night in 1079, Trahaiarn
fell.

Thy light alone--like mist o'er mountains driven, Or music by the
night-wind sent Through strings of some still instrument, Or moonlight
on a midnight stream, _35 Gives grace and truth to life's unquiet
dream.

For the king, whose longing was excessive, could not be satisfied with
devouring her form, which poured forth a stream of the nectar of
beauty, as the partridge cannot be satisfied with devouring the
moonlight.

Although there was a bright moon they saw each other only as men do by
moonlight, that is to say, they could distinguish the form of the
body, but could not tell for certain whether it was a friend or an
enemy.

It was a superb moonlight night, and the shadows of the graceful China
trees lay minutely pencilled on the turf below, and there was that
transparent stillness in the air which it seems almost unholy to
disturb.

Then Princess Moonlight replied that there was nothing she would not
do for him, that she honored and loved him as her own father, and that
as for herself she could not remember the time before she came to
earth.

Together with the fresh air and the moonlight, the croaking of the
frogs entered the room, mingling with the trills of a couple of
nightingales in the park and one close to the window in a bush of
lilacs in bloom.

O Hecate, with flameful brands, O Zeus's daughter, arm thine hands,
Those swiftliest hands, both right and left; Thy rays on Glyce's
cottage throw That I serenely there may go And search by moonlight for
the theft.

There was a full moonlight, and I could see that the noise was made by
a great bat, which wheeled around, doubtless attracted by the light,
although so dim, and every now and again struck the window with its
wings.

The six animals being excessively thirsty, the volume of the fluid
gradually diminished in the moonlight before our eyes; the camels and
horses' legs and noses were all pushing against one another while they
drank.

From the centre hung a lamp as round as a ball, shining as if with the
brightest moonlight, which made everything visible in the room, though
not so clearly that the princess could tell what many of the things
were.

We believe that Mr Horseman himself would relent, and the spirit of
Sir Benjamin Hall give way, were those great reformers to allow
themselves to stroll by moonlight round the towers of some of our
ancient churches.

Besides, you know, you'll be in costume, and that makes all the
difference in the world; Juliet's in a balcony, enjoying the moonlight
before she goes to bed, and she's got on her night-gown and her
ruffled nightcap.

The elephant turned, without a sound, took three strides back to the
boy in the moonlight, put down his trunk, swung him up to his neck,
and almost before Little Toomai had settled his knees, slipped into
the forest.

Gray Superstition's whisper dread Debarred the spot to vulgar tread;
For there, she said, did fays resort, And satyrs hold their sylvan
court, By moonlight tread their mystic maze, And blast the rash
beholder's gaze.

He complains that he had no moment to read his breviary, except by the
moonlight or the fire, when stretched out to sleep on a bare rock by
some savage cataract of the Ottawa, or in a damp nook of the adjacent
forest.

TOINE MADAME HUSSON'S ROSIER THE ADOPTED SON A COWARD OLD MONGILET
MOONLIGHT THE FIRST SNOWFALL SUNDAYS OF A BOURGEOIS A RECOLLECTION OUR
LETTERS THE LOVE OF LONG AGO FRIEND JOSEPH THE EFFEMINATES OLD AMABLE
VOLUME X.

If thou wilt restore my freedom, Spare my life, from pain and sorrow,
I will quick retrace my journey, Nevermore to show my visage To the
people of Wainola, Never while the moonlight glimmers On the hills of
Kalevala!

Quick the hero of Wainola Drew his mighty sword of magic; On its
border shone the moonlight, On its hilt the Sun was shining, On its
back, a neighing stallion, On its face a cat was mewing, Beautiful his
magic weapon.

Her grandfather was in bed at this hour, for she so frequently walked
upon the hills on moonlight nights that he took no notice of her
comings and goings, and, enjoying himself in his own way, left her to
do likewise.

Their mother came to the door with us, and we tarried for a moment to
look out at the white slope of the corral and the two ponds asleep in
the moonlight, and the long sweep of the pasture under the star-
sprinkled sky.

My thoughts arise and fade in solitude, The verse that would invest
them melts away Like moonlight in the heaven of spreading day: How
beautiful they were, how firm they stood, Flecking the starry sky like
woven pearl!

The very moonlight on the wall of Kami's studio across the road seemed
to make the night hotter, and the shadow of the big bell-handle by the
closed gate cast a bar of inky black that caught Maisie's eye and
annoyed her.

And got to thinking over our trip down the river; and I see Jim before
me all the time: in the day and in the night-time, sometimes
moonlight, sometimes storms, and we a- floating along, talking and
singing and laughing.

I thought about the friends he had mourned to leave, the trombone-
player, the great forest full of game--belonging, as Antonia said, to
the `nobles'-- from which she and her mother used to steal wood on
moonlight nights.

But this is known to the denizens of the jungle, that on many
moonlight nights Tarzan of the Apes and Tantor, the elephant, walked
together, and where the way was clear Tarzan rode, perched high upon
Tantor's mighty back.

MRS BREEN: (IN A ONEPIECE EVENING FROCK EXECUTED IN MOONLIGHT BLUE, A
TINSEL SYLPH'S DIADEM ON HER BROW WITH HER DANCECARD FALLEN BESIDE HER
MOONBLUE SATIN SLIPPER, CURVES HER PALM SOFTLY, BREATHING QUICKLY)
VOGLIO E NON.

When coming home, it was then bright moonlight, so bright that, though
the front of our part of the Crescent was in shadow, everything could
be well seen, I threw a glance up at our window, and saw Lucy's head
leaning out.

Neither light nor darkness can separate between you and me: This quiet
moonlight cannot take you from me; but in the still, sweet darkness
you will feel more completely my own, because it will hold nothing we
cannot share.

He turned and took a last look at the lonely bit of coast, where stood
the wooden hut, now bathed in moonlight, the scene of the greatest
discomfiture ever experienced by a leading member of the Committee of
Public Safety.

I will send thee nine diseases, Each more fatal than the other, That
will sicken all thy people, Make thy children sink and perish,
Nevermore to visit Northland, Never while the moonlight glimmers On
the plains of Kalevala!

Whole nights he spent by moonlight pale To wood and stream his teal,
to wail, Till, frantic, he as truth received What of his birth the
crowd believed, And sought, in mist and meteor fire, To meet and know
his Phantom Sire!

His joy in life was so great that it agitated him, and kept him awake
many a night, especially when it was moonlight, so that instead of
sleeping he wandered about in the garden till dawn, alone with his
dreams and fancies.

She looked divinely pretty as she stood there in the moonlight, with
the fur-cloak sliding off her beautiful shoulders, the gold embroidery
on her dress shimmering around her, her childlike blue eyes turned up
fully at him.

Suddenly the horror burst upon me that it was thus that Jonathan had
seen those awful women growing into reality through the whirling mist
in the moonlight, and in my dream I must have fainted, for all became
black darkness.

Wicked Louhi of Pohyola, Thou canst banish evil-doers, In the rocks
canst hide the wicked, In thy mountains lock the guilty; Thou canst
never hide the moonlight, Never bide the silver sunshine, In the
caverns of thy kingdom.

It was the DAY DREAM, Percy's favourite yacht, and all her crew of
British sailors: her white sails, glistening in the moonlight, seemed
to convey a message to Marguerite of joy and hope, which yet she
feared could never be.

Also, in the moonlight her bodice had assumed a bluish tinge, so that
she looked almost phantasmal; and when soundlessly, moving as though
on air, she stepped back into the shadow of the trees, that shadow
seemed to lighten.

The Verdurins had spoken only in whispers, and in vague terms, but the
painter, perhaps without thinking, shouted out: "There must be no
lights of any sort, and he must play the Moonlight Sonata in the dark,
for us to see by.

It was fortunately moonlight; but the jungle was so thick that the
narrow track was barely perceptible; thus both camels and donkeys ran
against the trunks of trees, smashing the luggage and breaking all
that could be broken.

At last--and Mother Wolf's neck bristles lifted as the time came--
Father Wolf pushed "Mowgli the Frog," as they called him, into the
center, where he sat laughing and playing with some pebbles that
glistened in the moonlight.

Straightway hastened Ilmarinen To the threshold of his smithy, Quickly
scanned the far horizon, Saw again the silver sunshine, Saw once more
the golden moonlight, Bringing peace, and joy, and plenty, To the
homes of Kalevala.

I had not long speculated on this disagreeable subject, when the back
garden-door opened, and the figures of Andrew and his country-man--
bending under his pack--crossed the moonlight alley, and called my
attention elsewhere.

I have seen a hale and hearty Arab, after sitting an hour in the
moonlight, look like a man fresh from a sick bed; and I knew an
Englishman in India whose face was temporarily paralysed by sleeping
with it exposed to the moon.

That evening I resolved to give up the Nile trip, return home
immediately, send for Garth, admit all to him, asking him to let us
both begin again just where we were three years ago in the moonlight
on the terrace at Shenstone.

Never in the course of ages, Never while the moonlight glimmers,
Wickedly approach thy household, Nor unworthily, thy servants, Nor thy
courts with indiscretion; Let thy dwellings sing good manners, And thy
walls re-echo virtue.

But, for myself, during the whole of my Custom-House experience,
moonlight and sunshine, and the glow of firelight, were just alike in
my regard; and neither of them was of one whit more avail than the
twinkle of a tallow-candle.

Well, this man was a coming home-along from a wedding where he had
been playing his fiddle, one fine moonlight night, and for shortness'
sake he took a cut across Forty-acres, a field lying that way, where a
bull was out to grass.

Then will Suomi need my coming, Watch for me at dawn of morning, That
I may bring back the Sampo, Bring anew the harp of joyance, Bring
again the golden moonlight, Bring again the silver sunshine, Peace and
plenty to the Northland.

After a few moments of further silence, steeped in the silver
moonlight of reminiscence for Garth; occupied by the doctor in a rapid
piecing in of Jane's version; the sad young voice continued: "I
thought she understood completely.

With mountain winds, and babbling springs, And moonlight seas, that
are the voice Of these inexplicable things, Thou didst hold commune,
and rejoice _10 When they did answer thee; but they Cast, like a
worthless boon, thy love away.

They float on the swell of the eddying tempest, And scared seek the
caves of gigantic... Where their thin forms pour unearthly sounds _60
On the blast that sweets the breast of the lake, And mingles its swell
with the moonlight air.

But one evening, ten days before the wedding, you went for a stroll
with him in the moonlight before the house--and yonder--under the pine
tree, the big pine tree--he kissed you--kissed you--and held you in
his arms so long--so long!

The face in the moonlight looked singularly earnest, and recalled to
Marguerite's aching heart those happy days of courtship, before he had
become the lazy nincompoop, the effete fop, whose life seemed spent in
card and supper rooms.

It was impossible to travel through this region at night, even by
moonlight; we should have lost our eyes upon the sticks and branches
of the direful scrubs if we had attempted it, besides tearing our skin
and clothes to pieces also.

So he went in to Princess Moonlight and said reverently: "Although you
have always seemed to me to be a heavenly being, yet I have had the
trouble of bringing you up as my own child and you have been glad of
the protection of my roof.

During the night the weather became perfect, a breeze from the south,
moonlight and starry, and we went up the river by soundings and
observations of the stars until at 1 a.m. on Monday, when we had the
Recalada light-ship right ahead.

You quicken your pace, and escape again into the open plains and the
full moonlight, and through the slender tea-trees catch the gleam of
the river, and in the exquisite fineness of the atmosphere hear the
soothing sound of its murmur.

By moonlight in the garden she recited all the passionate rhymes she
knew by heart, and, sighing, sang to him many melancholy adagios; but
she found herself as calm after as before, and Charles seemed no more
amorous and no more moved.

You remember where we held That conversation;--nay, we see the spot
Even from this cypress;--two long years are past Since, on an April
midnight, underneath _5 The moonlight ruins of Mount Palatine, I did
confess to you my secret mind.

Whereat Hugo ran from the house, crying to his grooms that they should
saddle his mare and unkennel the pack, and giving the hounds a
kerchief of the maid's, he swung them to the line, and so off full cry
in the moonlight over the moor.

When they came out onto the beaten highroad- polished by sleigh
runners and cut up by rough-shod hoofs, the marks of which were
visible in the moonlight- the horses began to tug at the reins of
their own accord and increased their pace.

Tiny are her feet and fingers, Small her lips of scarlet color, Like
the maiden's loom of Suomi; Eyes that shine in kindly beauty Like the
twinkling stars of heaven; Beam the playmate's throbbing temples Like
the moonlight on the waters.

In a moment more the little princess was dreaming in the midst of the
loveliest dreams - of summer seas and moonlight and mossy springs and
great murmuring trees, and beds of wild flowers with such odours as
she had never smelled before.

It seemed to her that if he were here she could go out with him into
this brilliant moonlight, seat herself upon some ancient fallen stone,
and let him kneel in front of her and gaze and gaze in his persistent
way, as much as he pleased.

By moonlight, when the scenery is most suggestive and unearthly, and
the noises of wolves and owls inspire uneasy feelings, the ghost is
seen on a hill a mile south of the Watch Dog, her hair blowing, her
arms tossing in strange gestures.

The spell of the enchanted forest is broken when the crowd invades its
solitude; the witchery of moonlight fades into the light of common
day; and then comes Theseus with his dogs to drive not the foxes but
the fairies out of the landscape.

[2] All kinds of songs are represented; the rondeaux of children whose
inspiration is alike in all countries: "Oh, moonlight clear in the
narrow streets, Tell to our little friends To come out now with us to
play-- To play with us to-night.

Their red coats and black shakos and the glint of the moonlight on
their weapons made them conspicuous in the struggling mass, and the
sinister intent which was manifest in their look and bearing sent a
strange thrill through the multitude.

A few yards back from the causeway, a broad patch of green before it,
stood the inn,--a sullen, old-fashioned building of cold gray stone,
looking livid in the moonlight, with black firs at one side throwing
over half of it a dismal shadow.

In it she put magic herbs, with seeds and flowers of acrid juice,
stones from the distant east, and sand from the shore of all-
surrounding ocean; hoar frost, gathered by moonlight, a screech owl's
head and wings, and the entrails of a wolf.

He stretched himself on the shingle, thinking of the Manzanilla, and
Annette, and the fine flavour given to tobacco by a dry still air in
moonlight--thinking of his work, too, in the background, as far as
mental lassitude would allow of it.

The bamboo-cutter took the box from the Knight and, as usual, carried
it in to her and tried to coax her to see the Knight at once, but
Princess Moonlight refused, saying that she must first put the skin to
test by putting it into the fire.

In Natasha Prince Andrew was conscious of a strange world completely
alien to him and brimful of joys unknown to him, a different world,
that in the Otradnoe avenue and at the window that moonlight night had
already begun to disconcert him.

Having kept close in shore, for the land-breeze, we passed the mission
of San Juan Campestráno the same night, and saw distinctly, by the
bright moonlight, the hill which I had gone down by a pair of halyards
in search of a few paltry hides.

Yellow mist Filled the unbounded atmosphere, and drank _605 Wan
moonlight even to fulness; not a star Shone, not a sound was heard;
the very winds, Danger's grim playmates, on that precipice Slept,
clasped in his embrace.--O, storm of death!

There was the moonlight streaming in at the window, and in the middle
of the moonlight sat the old lady in her black dress with the white
lace, and her silvery hair mingling with the moonlight, so that you
could not have told which was which.

The holy doctor had been relating that memorable conversation on
heavenly things which took place between his mother and himself on
that moonlight night at the window in the inn at Ostia, immortalized
by Ary Schaeffer in his beautiful picture.

It is the sole star which on a night of frost and strong moonlight
preserves an indomitable fervency: that she remembered, and the
picture of a hoar earth and a lean Orion in flooded heavens, and the
star beneath Eastward of him: but the name!

The windows were curtainless, and the yellow moonlight, flooding in
through the diamond panes, enabled one to see even colours, whilst it
softened the wealth of dust which lay over all and disguised in some
measure the ravages of time and moth.

"Upon my word, monseigneur," replied D'Artagnan, "M. d'Herblay must be
desperately fond of walking out at night, and composing verses by
moonlight in the park of Vaux, with some of your poets, in all
probability, for he is not in his own room."

At Verney's Wells we had a grand corrobboree in the warm moonlight; my
young men and black boy stripped themselves, and young and old, black
and white, danced and yelled, and generally made the night hideous
with their noise till early morning.

Then Kala Nag reached the crest of the ascent and stopped for a
minute, and Little Toomai could see the tops of the trees lying all
speckled and furry under the moonlight for miles and miles, and the
blue-white mist over the river in the hollow.

At some distance opposite, the outer walls of Sarcophagus College--
silent, black, and windowless--threw their four centuries of gloom,
bigotry, and decay into the little room she occupied, shutting out the
moonlight by night and the sun by day.

I seem so, because in the midst of the world I know how to wear the
mask of a scoffer upon my face; and yet, how many a time at the sight
of a cemetery by moonlight have I not asked myself whether it were not
better to join those sleeping there!

Her brother Rowsley's revealed human appearance of the stricken man
--stricken right into his big heart--precipitated Lady Charlotte's
reflections and urged her to an unavailing fever of haste during the
circuitous drive in moonlight to the port.

We had supped tete-a-tete, we were alone, in the grove by moonlight,
and after two hours of the most lively and tender conversation, she
left this grove at midnight, and the arms of her lover, as morally and
physically pure as she had entered it.

She is lost to me already," thought I, as my eye wandered over the dim
and indistinguishable intricacies of architecture offered by the
moonlight view of Osbaldistone Hall--"She is lost to me already, ere I
have left the place which she inhabits!

De Lord will call us home," was evidently thought to be a symbolical
verse; for, as a little drummer-boy explained to me, showing all his
white teeth as he sat in the moonlight by the door of my tent, "Dey
tink _de Lord_ mean for say _de Yankees_.

Also, he was weeping in his sleep--tears were coursing down his brown,
sunburnt cheeks; tears which, in the moonlight, had in them something
of the greenish tint of a chrysolite or sea water, and which, on such
a manly face, looked strange indeed!

half nebulous: The moonlight streams o'er the blue-shadowed roofs; A
lovely frame for this wild battle-scene; Beneath the vapor's floating
scarves, the Seine Trembles, mysterious, like a magic mirror, And,
shortly, you shall see what you shall see!

It was from companionship with this baby-phantom I had been roused on
that moonlight night when I heard the cry; and it was on the afternoon
of the day following I was summoned downstairs by a message that some
one wanted me in Mrs. Fairfax's room.

At the bottom of the smooth plaster wall there was a brick pulled out
to make a sluice for the bath water, and as Rikki-tikki stole in by
the masonry curb where the bath is put, he heard Nag and Nagaina
whispering together outside in the moonlight.

Ukko, first of all creators, Lived in wonder at the darkness; Long
reflected, well considered, Why this miracle in heaven, What this
accident in nature To the Moon upon her journey; Why the Sun no more
is shining, Why has disappeared the moonlight.

I have never seen anything weirder than a moonlight night in one of
these strong places whose masonry is perfect as when first built, the
snowy light pouring on the jet-black basalt and the breeze sighing and
the jackal wailing in the desert around.

But the man dared not draw near the moonlight, holding it to be the
river, so he tucked up his gown to his hip-bones, and as the dog
pulled more lustily he said in his mind, "By Allah this must be a
mighty big fish and I believe it to be a ravenous.

At each moment was heard the short, metallic note of the cricket, and
distant nightingales shook out their scattered notes--their light,
vibrant music that sets one dreaming, without thinking, a music made
for kisses, for the seduction of moonlight.

This the answer of the blacksmith: "'Tis a collar I am forging For the
neck of wicked Louhi, Toothless witch of Sariola, Stealer of the
silver sunshine, Stealer of the golden moonlight; With this collar I
shall bind her To the iron-rock of Ehstland!

Dymas and Hypanis by moonlight knew My motions and my mien, and to my
party drew; With young Coroebus, who by love was led To win renown and
fair Cassandra's bed, And lately brought his troops to Priam's aid,
Forewarn'd in vain by the prophetic maid.

Mr Arabin, as he sat at his open window, enjoying the delicious
moonlight and gazing at the gray towers of the church, which stood
almost within the rectory grounds, little dreamed that he was the
subject of so many friendly or unfriendly criticisms.

And we were silent, our beings pervaded by the serene and living
coolness of the beautiful night, the coolness of the moonlight, which
seemed to penetrate one's body, permeate it, soothe one's spirit, fill
it with fragrance and steep it in happiness.

He had rather imagined that the denoument would take place in the
chateau garden by moonlight, and in the most graceful and decorus
manner, but it turned out exactly the reverse, for the matter was
settled on the lake at noonday in a few blunt words.

Or no, that's a slight slip; it wasn't exactly Xmas, it was Xmas Eve,
Xmas Eve with its mantle of white snow lying beneath the calm
moonlight--and, in fact, with practically the above list of
accompanying circumstances with a few obvious emendations.

By moonlight the scene was oppressively solemn: on all sides the
gurgling waters kept up a peculiar sound that filled the air with
sullen murmurs; the moonbeams slept upon the slimy surface of the mud,
and made the dismal landscape more ghastly still.

By moonlight the scene was oppressively solemn: on all sides the
gurgling waters kept up a peculiar sound that filled the air with
sullen murmurs; the moonbeams slept upon the slimy surface of the mud,
and made the dismal landscape more ghastly still.

In winter, when the ground is covered with snow, what grand times they
have a slayin over these here mashes with the galls, or playin ball on
the ice, or goin to quiltin frolics of nice long winter evenings and
then a drivin home like mad, by moonlight.

Dan sluiced the pen energetically, unshipped the table, set it up to
dry in the moonlight, ran the red knife-blades through a wad of oakum,
and began to sharpen them on a tiny grindstone, as Harvey threw offal
and backbones overboard under his direction.

These, as the troop advanced, wound and widened, gradually receding,
and their summits, which were silver in the moonlight, took in the
distance a robe of purple, and the sides of the mountains were rounded
away in purple beyond a space of emerald pasture.

Listen, bride, to what I tell thee: In thy home thou wert a jewel,
Wert thy father's pride and pleasure, 'Moonlight,' did thy father call
thee, And thy mother called thee 'Sunshine,' 'Sea-foam' did thy
brother call thee, And thy sister called thee 'Flower.

Then Marguerite, who had listened as in a trance, who felt she must be
dreaming with that cool, magnetic moonlight overhead, heard again; and
this time her heart stood still, her eyes large and dilated, looked
round her, not daring to trust her other sense.

When the moon, just risen, looks red above the eastern horizon, go
out, and standing in the moonlight, with the big toe of your right
foot on the big toe of your left, make a speaking-trumpet of your
right hand and recite through it the following words: "OM.

It was a spacious moonlight, but the moonlight appeared to have got of
a brassy hue to her eyes, though the sparkle of the steel was white;
and she felt too, and wondered at it, that the cries and the noise
went to her throat, as if threatening to choke her.

The sleepless Hours who watch me as I lie, Curtained with star-inwoven
tapestries From the broad moonlight of the sky, Fanning the busy
dreams from my dim eyes,-- Waken me when their Mother, the gray Dawn,
_5 Tells them that dreams and that the moon is gone.

So in _The Merchant of Venice_ with its tragic figure of Shylock, who
is hurried off the stage to make place for a final scene of love,
moonlight and music; so in every other play of this period, the poetic
dream of life triumphs over its practical realities.

THE POETRY OF COLERIDGE A brook glancing under green leaves, self-
delighting, exulting, And full of a gurgling melody ever renewed -
Renewed thro' all changes of Heaven, unceasing in sunlight, Unceasing
in moonlight, but hushed in the beams of the holier orb.

The fairy king, who was always friendly to true lovers, felt great
compassion for Helena; and perhaps, as Lysander said they used to walk
by moonlight in this pleasant wood, Oberon might have seen Helena in
those happy times when she was beloved by Demetrius.

By this time the fame of Princess Moonlight's beauty had reached the
ears of the Emperor, and he sent one of the Court ladies to see if she
were really as lovely as report said; if so he would summon her to the
Palace and make her one of the ladies-in-waiting.

Spake the wise, old Wainamoinen: "For thy gold I have no longing,
Neither do I wish thy silver, Have enough of each already; Gold
abundant fills my chambers, On each nail hang bags of silver, Gold
that glitters in the sunshine, Silver shining in the moonlight.

That night nigh sped, While slowly o'er the darkling woods went down,
Warned by the cold breath of the up-creeping morn Invisible yet nigh,
the August moon, Two vestals, gliding past like moonlight gleams,
Conversed: one said, "His daughter's prayer prevailed!

After lingering at the finger-post for a few minutes to see the stilts
frisking away in the moonlight and the bearer of the drum toiling
slowly after them, he blew a few notes upon the trumpet as a parting
salute, and hastened with all speed to follow Mr Codlin.

At length I arose, opened the window, and stood by it for some time in
the clear moonlight, receiving, in part at least, that refreshment and
dissipation of ideas from the clear and calm scene, without which they
had become beyond the command of my own volition.

For an hour or more they heard it sniffing and clawing at the trees
which supported their platform, but at last it roamed away across the
beach, where Clayton could see it clearly in the brilliant moonlight--
a great, handsome beast, the largest he had ever seen.

Promptly afterwards, fresh sounds of astonishment arose; the window of
the captain's room was thrown open with a slam and a jingle of broken
glass, and a man leaned out into the moonlight, head and shoulders,
and addressed the blind beggar on the road below him.

in my head; Then a Face came, blind and weeping, And It couldn't wipe
its eyes, And It muttered I was keeping Back the moonlight from the
skies; So I patted it for pity, But it whistled shrill with wrath, And
a huge black Devil City Poured its peoples on my path.

About the beginning of May, and just before the final exodus of Hill-
goers, when the weather was very hot and there were not more than
twenty people in the Station, Saumarez gave a moonlight riding-picnic
at an old tomb, six miles away, near the bed of the river.

When Sharrkan heard her words he replied, "I am a stranger of the
Moslems, who fared forth this night single handed, seeking for spoil;
nor could this moonlight show me a fairer booty than these ten
maidens; so I shall seize them and rejoin my comrades with them.

Immediately on issuing forth he came upon an open place in the Bazar
when he heard the hubbub of children a-playing and saw at scanty
distance some ten or dozen boys making sport amongst themselves in the
moonlight; and he stopped awhile to watch their diversion.

Running with him into that part of the garden which I have already
described, they saw a score of creatures, to not one of which they
could give a name, and not one of which was like another, hideous and
ludicrous at once, gambolling on the lawn in the moonlight.

It being dark, the captain concluded to wait till moonlight, when an
order came to go up the river, near Port Hudson, for twenty soldiers
and thirty thousand dollars in contraband goods with two men
prisoners, who had been in charge of these goods for the rebels.

During this tirade, Vittoria was singing one of her old songs, well
known to Wilfrid, which brought the vision of a foaming weir, and
moonlight between the branches of a great cedar-tree, and the lost
love of his heart sitting by his side in the noising stillness.

Sad the lives of man and hero, Sad the homes of ocean-dwellers, If the
sun shines not upon them, If the moonlight does not cheer them Is
there not some mighty hero, Was there never born a giant, That can
fell the mighty oak-tree, That can lop its hundred branches?

And suddenly at the end of the garden, in the perfumed Asian dusk,
there was a beam like moonlight, and into the soft ray of it trod
little Golden Bells, with her wee warm face, and her wee warm hands,
and her hair dark as a cloud, and her eyes pleading, pleading.

Buddhism does not acknowledge the efficacy of prayers; and in the warm
countries where Buddhists live, the occasional reading of the law, or
preaching of the word, in public, can take place best in the open air,
by moonlight, under a simple roof of trees or palms.

I did not dare follow him there beneath the moonlight, since it best
suited my plans not to interrupt his--I wished him to reach his
destination unsuspecting, that I might learn just where that
destination lay and the business that awaited the night prowler there.

They piled on more coals, and the train shot into the tunnel, and the
engine rushed and roared and rattled, till at last they shot out at
the other end into fresh air and the peaceful moonlight, and saw the
wood lying dark and helpful upon either side of the line.

And starry river buds among the sedge, And floating water-lilies,
broad and bright, Which lit the oak that overhung the hedge With
moonlight beams of their own watery light; _30 And bulrushes, and
reeds of such deep green As soothed the dazzled eye with sober sheen.

Wainamoinen, old and truthful, Swam through all the deep-sea waters,
Floating like a branch of aspen, Like a withered twig of willow; Swam
six days in summer weather, Swam six nights in golden moonlight; Still
before him rose the billows, And behind him sky and ocean.

Now, with elated step, they pace the planks in twos and threes, and
humorously discourse of parlors, sofas, carpets, and fine cambrics;
propose to mat the deck; think of having hangings to the top; object
not to taking tea by moonlight on the piazza of the forecastle.

At last the day came for the naming of their new-found child, so the
old couple called in a celebrated name-giver, and he gave her the name
of Princess Moonlight, because her body gave forth so much soft bright
light that she might have been a daughter of the Moon God.

for waning beauty, Childhood vanished, youth departed, Silver
sunshine, golden moonlight, Hope and pleasure of my childhood, Taken
from me now forever, And so soon to be forgotten At the tool-bench of
my brother, At the window of my sister, In the cottage of my father.

There was brilliant moonlight, and the host of stars, all dim; and
first they beckoned her up to come away from trouble, and then,
through long gazing, she had the fancy that they bent and swam about
her, making her feel that she lay in the hollows of a warm hushed sea.

Spake a maid to Ilmarinen, Running to the blacksmith's furnace: "Rise,
O artist, from thy slumbers, Hasten from thy couch unworthy; Forge
from gold the Moon for Northland, Forge anew the Sun from silver
Cannot live without the moonlight, Nor without the silver sunshine!

Down in the swamp, two miles away, could he have but seen it, there
moved a sleigh, and in it a man dressed in a sealskin coat and silk
hat, whose face beamed in the moonlight as he turned to and fro and
stared at each object by the roadside as at an old familiar scene.

Hail, ye courtiers of Wainola, With the heroes of the fathers, Hail to
thee, Wainola's hamlet, Hail, ye halls with heroes peopled, Hail, ye
rooms with all your inmates, Hail to thee, sweet golden moonlight,
Hail to thee, benignant Ukko, Hail companions of the bridegroom!

In a few strides he had reached the Goblet potteries, on the front of
which the moonlight rendered distinctly legible the ancient
inscription:-- De Goblet fils c'est ici la fabrique;[14] Venez choisir
des cruches et des broos, Des pots a fleurs, des tuyaux, de la brique.

the board is spread, Keen blows the air, and cold, The spectre sleeps
in its earthy bed, 'Till St. Edmond's bell hath tolled,-- _40 'Yet
rest your wearied limbs to-night, You've journeyed many a mile, To-
morrow lay the wailing sprite, That shrieks in the moonlight aisle.

It was terrible to Dot to see the Kangaroo hop off into the dark bush,
and to find herself all alone; so she crawled out from under the ledge
of rock into the moonlight, and sat on a stone where she could see the
sky, and watch the black ragged clouds hurry over the moon.

The strong blast and the soft breeze; the rough and the halcyon day;
the hours of sunrise and sunset; the moonlight and the clouded night,
developed for me, in these regions, the same attraction as for them --
wound round my faculties the same spell that entranced theirs.

Be our friend and strong protector, Be the helper of thy children, In
the night a roof above them, In the day a shield around them, That the
sunshine may not vanish, That the moonlight may not lessen, That the
killing frosts may leave them, And destructive hail pass over.

Beyond the fence the forest stood up spectrally in the moonlight, and
through the dim stir, through the faint sounds of that lamentable
courtyard, the silence of the land went home to one's very heart,--its
mystery, its greatness, the amazing reality of its concealed life.

CHAPTER XI ALTHOUGH we avoided all unnecessary delay, it was close
upon midnight when our cab swung round into a darkly shadowed avenue,
at the farther end of which, as seen through a tunnel, the moonlight
glittered upon the windows of Rowan House, Sir Lionel Barton's home.

By tender moonlight, in captivating language, beneath the umbrageous
orange-groves, a Portuguese would have accurately calculated the
effect of the perfume of the blossom on her sensitive nostrils, and
know the exact moment when to kneel, and declare his passion
sonorously.

Ilmarinen, magic artist, Quick repairing to his bath-room, Bathed his
head to flaxen whiteness, Made his cheeks look fresh and ruddy, Laved
his eyes until they sparkled Like the moonlight on the waters;
Wondrous were his form and features, And his cheeks like ruddy
berries.

He wore a velvet jacket and he carried a camp stool and an easel on
his back, and in his face was a curved pipe with a long stem, and his
face was not red and rough like the face of Alexis, but mild and
beautiful and with a smile that played on it like moonlight over
putty.

We see in Endymion the young poet, his fancy and his heart seeking in
vain for that which can satisfy them, finding his favorite hour in the
quiet moonlight, and nursing there beneath the beams of the bright and
silent witness the melancholy and the ardor which consumes him.

Between this little king and queen of sprites there happened, at this
time, a sad disagreement; they never met by moonlight in the shady
walks of this pleasant wood, but they were quarrelling, till all their
fairy elves would creep into acorn-cups and hide themselves for fear.

Spake the brother, Wainamoinen: "I can tell thee greater wonders,
Listen to my wondrous story: I have seen the fir-tree blossom, Seen
its flowers with emerald branches, On the Osmo-fields and woodlands;
In its top, there shines the moonlight, And the Bear lives in its
branches.

The upholsterer's where we lodged being at the corner of two streets,
and my bedroom window being opposite the post, I was afraid to go near
the window when I went upstairs, lest I should see him (as I did one
moonlight night) leaning against the post and evidenfly catching cold.

After dinner that evening Tarzan strolled forward, where he remained
until after dark, in conversation with the second officer, and when
that gentleman's duties called him elsewhere Tarzan lolled lazily by
the rail watching the play of the moonlight upon the gently rolling
waters.

There was a deliberate voluptuousness which was both thrilling and
repulsive, and as she arched her neck she actually licked her lips
like an animal, till I could see in the moonlight the moisture shining
on the scarlet lips and on the red tongue as it lapped the white sharp
teeth.

Through the window (which overlooked the wood) the moon (nearly full)
was shining in such a way that one side of the tall white figure of
the idiot stood out in the pale, silvery moonlight, while the other
side was lost in the dark shadow which covered the floor, walls, and
ceiling.

Their features were clear cut and handsome in the extreme; their eyes
were well set and large, though a slight narrowness lent them a crafty
appearance; the iris, as well as I could determine by moonlight, was
of extreme blackness, while the eyeball itself was quite white and
clear.

The testimony of the man who first reported having seen one of them
was that, as he was walking slowly round the house, while yet in the
shadow, he caught sight of a creature standing on its hind legs in the
moonlight, with its forefeet upon a window-ledge, staring in at the
window.

The ancients supposed that in Arabia, if a hyaena trod on a man's
shadow, it deprived him of the power of speech and motion; and that if
a dog, standing on a roof in the moonlight, cast a shadow on the
ground and a hyaena trod on it, the dog would fall down as if dragged
with a rope.

Thus it came about, that I heard of his making little treats for the
fishermen at Mr. Peggotty's house of call, 'The Willing Mind', after I
was in bed, and of his being afloat, wrapped in fishermen's clothes,
whole moonlight nights, and coming back when the morning tide was at
flood.

I shall never visit Northland, Shall not go to see thy maiden, Do not
love the Bride of Beauty; Never while the moonlight glimmers, Shall I
go to dreary Pohya, To the plains of Sariola, Where the people eat
each other, Sink their heroes in the ocean, Not for all the maids of
Lapland.

At first, then, she left her room in darkness, and, groping her way to
the curtains, drew them back, threw up the sash, and, drawing a chair
to the window, sat down, leaning her elbows on the sill and her chin
in her hands, and looked down upon the terrace, still bathed in
moonlight.

and conjured him that he would tell the reason why he had left his
grave, where they had seen him quietly bestowed, to come again and
visit the earth and the moonlight: and besought him that he would let
them know if there was anything which they could do to give peace to
his spirit.

I mused and mused and mused; and the candle went out, and the
moonlight grew broader and stiller; till at last I was sailing in a
balloon with Uncle Jack, and had just tumbled into the Red Sea, when
the well-known voice of Nurse Primmins restored me to life with a "God
bless my heart!

So saying, the mother stole noiselessly across, and ventured to touch
the wicket; she never knew if it yielded, for that moment the man
sighed, and, turning restlessly, shifted the handkerchief on his head
in such manner that the face was left upturned and fair in the broad
moonlight.

A modern poet thus alludes to some of the Roman gods: "Pomona loves
the orchard, And Liber loves the vine, And Pales loves the straw-built
shed Warm with the breath of kine; And Venus loves the whisper Of
plighted youth and maid, In April's ivory moonlight, Beneath the
chestnut shade.

But each upbore a stately tent Where cedar pales in scented row Kept
out the flakes of the dancing brine, And an awning droop'd the mast
below, In fold on fold of the purple fine, That neither noontide nor
star-shine Nor moonlight cold which maketh mad, Might pierce the regal
tenement.

This I may know: her dressing and undressing Such a change of light
shows as when the skies in sport Shift from cloud to moonlight; or
edging over thunder Slips a ray of sun; or sweeping into port White
sails furl; or on the ocean borders White sails lean along the waves
leaping green.

But I know the daylight would often be a trial to me, because it would
be something he could not share; and when evening came, I should long
to say: 'Let us put out the lights and shut away the moonlight and sit
together in the sweet soft darkness, which is more uniting than the
light.

And one with trembling hands clasps his cold head, And fans him with
her moonlight wings, and cries; 'Our love, our hope, our sorrow, is
not dead; See, on the silken fringe of his faint eyes, _85 Like dew
upon a sleeping flower, there lies A tear some Dream has loosened from
his brain.

(It has come under the author's experience that some of the workmen on
an embankment in North Wales, who, in consequence of the inability of
the proprietor to pay them, seldom received their wages, have
supported large families by cultivating small spots of sterile ground
by moonlight.

Thus the flax was sowed at evening, Placed within the earth by
moonlight; Quick it grew, and quickly ripened, Quick Wainola's heroes
pulled it, Quick they broke it on the hackles, Hastened with it to the
waters, Dipped it in the lake and washed it; Quickly brought it borne
and dried it.

The day after the letter arrived in New Orleans, Susan and Emmeline
were attached, and sent to the depot to await a general auction on the
following morning; and as they glimmer faintly upon us in the
moonlight which steals through the grated window, we may listen to
their conversation.

(1) "I have frequently," says Mr. Wilkinson, in his invaluable work
upon South Australia, at once so graphic and so practical, "been out
on a journey in such a night, and whilst allowing the horse his own
time to walk along the road, have solaced myself by reading in the
still moonlight.

Apart, and nestling in the hay Of a waste loft, Fitz-Eustace lay;
Scarce, by the pale moonlight, were seen 525 The foldings of his
mantle green: Lightly he dreamt, as youth will dream, Of sport by
thicket, or by stream, Of hawk or hound, of ring or glove, Or, lighter
yet, of lady's love.

It was not long before he thought he could perceive below him vague
forms that seemed to be gliding toward the tree, and then, by the aid
of a ray of moonlight that shot like an electric flash between two
masses of cloud, he distinctly made out a group of human figures
moving in the shadow.

In former narrations I have sufficiently described the charm of a
moonlight ascent into a hostile country, upon an unknown stream, the
dark and silent banks, the rippling water, the wail of the reed-birds,
the anxious watch, the breathless listening, the veiled lights, the
whispered orders.

The fog which, two hours before, had floated on the water, had
gradually cleared off and massed on the banks, leaving the river
absolutely clear; while it formed on either bank an uninterrupted wall
six or seven metres high, which shone in the moonlight with the
dazzling brilliance of snow.

Moonlight, in a familiar room, falling so white upon the carpet, and
showing all its figures so distinctly--making every object so minutely
visible, yet so unlike a morning or noontide visibility--is a medium
the most suitable for a romance-writer to get acquainted with his
illusive guests.

* * * This I may know: her dressing and undressing Such a change of
light shows as when the skies in sport Shift from cloud to moonlight;
or edging over thunder Slips a ray of sun; or sweeping into port White
sails furl; or on the ocean borders White sails lean along the waves
leaping green.

He would always creep in-shore like some uncomfortable amphibious
creature, even when the tide would have sent him fast upon his way;
and I always think of him as coming after us in the dark or by the
back-water, when our own two boats were breaking the sunset or the
moonlight in mid-stream.

As Captain Roland spoke, something in the tone of his question seemed
to flash a conviction on my mother's heart, the woman there was quick;
she drew back, turning pale even in the moonlight, and fixed her eyes
on my father, while I felt her hand, which had clasped mine, tremble
convulsively.

As we drew in through the Golden Gate, another light-house met our
eyes, and in the clear moonlight of the unbroken California summer we
saw, on the right, a large fortification protecting the narrow
entrance, and just before us the little island of Alcatraz confronted
us,--one entire fortress.

Mr Slope knew that the gable-ends and old brick chimneys which stood
up so prettily in the moonlight, were those of Mr Harding's late
abode, and would not have stopped on such a spot, in such company, if
he could have avoided it; but Miss Stanhope would not take the hint
which he tried to give.

Mysteriously jetted into the clear moonlight, or starlight, as the
case might be; disappearing again for one whole day, or two days, or
three; and somehow seeming at every distinct repetition to be
advancing still further and further in our van, this solitary jet
seemed for ever alluring us on.

While they drove past the garden the shadows of the bare trees often
fell across the road and hid the brilliant moonlight, but as soon as
they were past the fence, the snowy plain bathed in moonlight and
motionless spread out before them glittering like diamonds and dappled
with bluish shadows.

When the night wind howls in the chimney cowls, and the bat in the
moonlight flies, And inky clouds, like funeral shrouds, sail over the
midnight skies-- When the footpads quail at the night-bird's wail, and
black dogs bay at the moon, Then is the spectres' holiday--then is the
ghosts' high-noon!

Instant silence fell on the gay throng, and not a sound, but he dash
of fountains or the rustle of orange groves sleeping in the moonlight,
broke the hush, as Count de Adelon spoke thus: "My lords and ladies,
pardon the ruse by which I have gathered you here to witness the
marriage of my daughter.

Over one end of it rose, tapering like a walking-stick, a factory
chimney, while at the other end, as well as in the middle, rose
belfries, one of which had a gilded steeple, and the other one a
steeple either green or blue, but looking black in the moonlight, and
shaped like a ragged paint-brush.

And, then, are not these confessions of intimate experiences, these
moonlight sentimentalities, these listless dreams, &c., out of place
in the gaslight glare of concert-rooms, crowded with audiences brought
together to a great extent rather by ennui, vanity, and idle curiosity
than by love of art?

Not Miss Crawley--she preferred her carriage--but the walk over the
Rectory fields, and in at the little park wicket, and through the dark
plantation, and up the checkered avenue to Queen's Crawley, was
charming in the moonlight to two such lovers of the picturesque as the
Captain and Miss Rebecca.

By an expiring blue-shot beam of moonlight, Farina beheld a vast realm
of gloom filling the hollow of the West, and the moon was soon
extinguished behind sluggish scraps of iron scud detached from the
swinging bulk of ruin, as heavily it ground on the atmosphere in the
first thunder-launch of motion.

He picked up a clean pine shingle that lay in the moonlight, took a
little fragment of "red keel" out of his pocket, got the moon on his
work, and painfully scrawled these lines, emphasizing each slow down-
stroke by clamping his tongue between his teeth, and letting up the
pressure on the up-strokes.

So we walked along towards the beach; now, says I, look at that are
man, old Lunar, and his son, a sawin plank by moonlight, for that are
vessel on the stocks there; come agin to morrow mornin, afore you can
cleverly discarn objects the matter of a yard or so afore you, and
you'll find 'em at it agin.

For whatever CAN run its course of all things, also in this long lane
OUTWARD--MUST it once more run!-- And this slow spider which creepeth
in the moonlight, and this moonlight itself, and thou and I in this
gateway whispering together, whispering of eternal things--must we not
all have already existed?

III Ah I ever I behold Thy dreamy, passionate eyes, Blue as the
languid skies Hung with the sunset's fringe of gold; Now strangely
clear thine image grows, And olden memories Are startled from their
long repose Like shadows on the silent snows When suddenly the night-
wind blows Where quiet moonlight ties.

Nekhludoff had long been wavering between two ways of regarding Missy;
sometimes he looked at her as if by moonlight, and could see in her
nothing but what was beautiful, fresh, pretty, clever and natural;
then suddenly, as if the bright sun shone on her, he saw her defects
and could not help seeing them.

Away with Sir W. Pen, who was there, and he and I walked in the garden
by moonlight, and he proposes his and my looking out into Scotland
about timber, and to use Pett there; for timber will be a good
commodity this time of building the City; and I like the motion, and
doubt not that we may do good in it.

Then there came a deafening creaking and crashing; then a huge
brownish-white rolling wall, upon which the moonlight gleamed for an
instant, and then the very trump of doom--a writhing, brawling,
weltering chaos of cattle, dogs, men, lumber, houses, barns, whirling
and struggling upon the destroying flood.

He was creeping from behind the rock where the stream ran out, for he
had been listening all round it in the hope it might convey to his ear
some indication of the whereabouts of the goblin miners, when just as
he came into the moonlight on the lawn, a whizz in his ear and a blow
upon his leg startled him.

Then came the thump of horse-hoofs on the turf, and in half a minute
they were amidst of a rout of men a-horseback, more than a score,
whose armour and weapons gleamed in the moonlight: yet when these
riders were gotten there, they were silent, till one said in a
quavering voice as if afeard: "Otter, Otter!

A bell with an old voice--which I dare say in its time had often said
to the house, Here is the green farthingale, Here is the diamond-
hilted sword, Here are the shoes with red heels and the blue solitaire
--sounded gravely in the moonlight, and two cherry-colored maids came
fluttering out to receive Estella.

Half the sky was chequered with black thunderheads, but all the west
was luminous and clear: in the lightning flashes it looked like deep
blue water, with the sheen of moonlight on it; and the mottled part of
the sky was like marble pavement, like the quay of some splendid
seacoast city, doomed to destruction.

Tis just one year--sure thou dost not forget-- 'Then Plato's words of
light in thee and me Lingered like moonlight in the moonless east,
_225 For we had just then read--thy memory 'Is faithful now--the story
of the feast; And Agathon and Diotima seemed From death and dark
forgetfulness released...' FRAGMENT 3.

Lassitude, giddiness, and headache came on as our exertions increased,
and took away the pleasure I should otherwise have felt in
contemplating by moonlight the varied phenomena, which seemed to crowd
upon the restless imagination, in the different forms of mountain,
glacier, moraine, lake, boulder and terrace.

Lassitude, giddiness, and headache came on as our exertions increased,
and took away the pleasure I should otherwise have felt in
contemplating by moonlight the varied phenomena, which seemed to crowd
upon the restless imagination, in the different forms of mountain,
glacier, moraine, lake, boulder and terrace.

As we skirted along the coast, Wilson and I recognized, or thought we
did, in the clear moonlight, the rude white Mission of San Juan
Capistrano, and its cliff, from which I had swung down by a pair of
halyards to save a few hides,--a boy who could not be prudential, and
who caught at every chance for adventure.

We are together now, and it is unknown how long we shall be so; the
unknown always fills my mind with terrible possibilities, even when I
may reasonably expect it to be cheerful....Clym, the eclipsed
moonlight shines upon your face with a strange foreign colour, and
shows its shape as if it were cut out in gold.

Down they walked through the stony streets and past the cosy houses
with overhanging gables, before the doors of which sat the burghers
and craftsmen in the mellow moonlight, with their families about them,
and so came at last, on the other side of the hamlet, to a little inn,
all shaded with roses and woodbines.

But however the mind of the young man might be absorbed in these
reflections, they were at once dispersed at the sight of the dark
frowning ruins of the stupendous Colosseum, through the various
openings of which the pale moonlight played and flickered like the
unearthly gleam from the eyes of the wandering dead.

I found our kind-hearted ladies, Mrs. Chamberlin and Mrs. Dewhurst, on
board the steamer, but there was nothing for them to do, and we walked
back to camp in the radiant moonlight; Mrs. Chamberlin more than ever
strengthened in her blushing woman's philosophy, 'I don't care who
wins the laurels, provided we don't!

One time he would be a playactor, then a sutler or a welsher, then
nought would keep him from the bearpit and the cocking main, then he
was for the ocean sea or to hoof it on the roads with the romany folk,
kidnapping a squire's heir by favour of moonlight or fecking maids'
linen or choking chicken behind a hedge.

The thread which the spiders had spun far over the seas, which her
grandmother had sat in the moonlight and spun again for her, which she
had tempered in the rose-fire and tied to her opal ring, had left her
- had gone where she could no longer follow it - had brought her into
a horrible cavern, and there left her!

But the mare did all these things, and while Platte was rolling over
and over on the turf, like a shot rabbit, the watch and guard flew
from his waistcoat--as an Infantry Major's sword hops out of the
scabbard when they are firing a feu de joie--and rolled and rolled in
the moonlight, till it stopped under a window.

Those ships of Spain, which lay there with their banners waving in the
moonlight, discharging salvoes of anticipated triumph and filling the
air with strains of insolent music; would they not, by daybreak, be
moving straight to their purpose, bearing the conquerors of the world
to the scene of their cherished hopes?

May no tree remain unlevelled, May no saplings grow in spring-time,
Never while the moonlight glimmers, Where Kullervo's voice has echoed,
Where the forest hears my calling; Where the ground with seed is
planted, And the grain shall sprout and flourish, May it never come to
ripeness, Mar the ears of corn be blasted!

And Philippe did collect all his forces, a great and noble army, and
came one night to the hill of Sangate, just behind the English army,
the knights' armor glancing and their pennons flying in the moonlight,
so as to be a beautiful sight to the hungry garrison who could see the
white tents pitched upon the hillside.

It will be horribly lonesome here next winter," she mourned, one
twilight when the moonlight was raining "airy silver" through the
cherry boughs and filling the east gable with a soft, dream-like
radiance in which the two girls sat and talked, Anne on her low rocker
by the window, Diana sitting Turkfashion on the bed.

A sympathetic vision of her maiden's tears on the night of wonderful
moonlight when, as it seemed to her now, San Giorgio stood like a dark
prophet of her present abasement and chastisement, sprang tears of a
different character, and weak as she was with her soul's fever and for
want of food, she was piteously shaken.

And so as he yede, he saw and hearkened by the moonlight, how that
pillers and robbers were come into the field, to pill and to rob many
a full noble knight of brooches, and beads, of many a good ring, and
of many a rich jewel; and who that were not dead all out, there they
slew them for their harness and their riches.

Thereupon young Lemminkainen, Handsome Islander and hero, Changing
both his form and features, Clad himself in other raiment, Changing to
another body, Quick became a mighty eagle, Soared aloft on wings of
magic, Tried to fly to highest heaven, But the moonlight burned his
temples, And the sunshine singed his feathers.

The great wall of vegetation, an exuberant and entangled mass of
trunks, branches, leaves, boughs, festoons, motionless in the
moonlight, was like a rioting invasion of soundless life, a rolling
wave of plants, piled up, crested, ready to topple over the creek, to
sweep every little man of us out of his little existence.

As soon as I appeared in the moonlight on the terrace, he had come to
me as straight as possible; on which I had taken his hand without a
word and led him, through the dark spaces, up the staircase where
Quint had so hungrily hovered for him, along the lobby where I had
listened and trembled, and so to his forsaken room.

When the long winter nights come on and the wolves follow their meat
into the lower valleys, he may be seen running at the head of the pack
through the pale moonlight or glimmering borealis, leaping gigantic
above his fellows, his great throat a-bellow as he sings a song of the
younger world, which is the song of the pack.

He took women, married or single, into his confidence; walked them up
and down in the moonlight, telling them what a mistake he had made by
not entering the office branch of the service, and how much better
fitted he was to fill the post of General Passenger Agent in Denver
than the rough-shod man who then bore that title.

It was while gliding through these latter waters that one serene and
moonlight night, when all the waves rolled by like scrolls of silver;
and, by their soft, suffusing seethings, made what seemed a silvery
silence, not a solitude; on such a silent night a silvery jet was seen
far in advance of the white bubbles at the bow.

The ring-dove, in the embowering ivy, yet Keeps up her love-lament,
and the owls flit _530 Round the evening tower, and the young stars
glance Between the quick bats in their twilight dance; The spotted
deer bask in the fresh moonlight Before our gate, and the slow, silent
night Is measured by the pants of their calm sleep.

In these fields of Mr. Tulkinghorn's inhabiting, where the shepherds
play on Chancery pipes that have no stop, and keep their sheep in the
fold by hook and by crook until they have shorn them exceeding close,
every noise is merged, this moonlight night, into a distant ringing
hum, as if the city were a vast glass, vibrating.

Wicked Frost, the son of Winter, Saw the magic bird of evil Hovering
above his spirit, Straightway prayed for Ahti's mercy, These the words
the Frost-fiend uttered: "Let us now agree together, Neither one to
harm the other, Never in the course of ages, Never while the moonlight
glimmers On the snow-capped hills of Northland.

that when Orion pales To dotlings under moonlight still art keen With
cheerful fervour of a warrior's mien Who holds in his great heart the
battle-scales: Unquenched of flame though swift the flood assails,
Reducing many lustrous to the lean: Be thou my star, and thou in me be
seen To show what source divine is, and prevails.

But on other moonlight nights, when the sadness and the silence have
touched me in a different way--have affected me with something as like
a sorrowful sense of peace, as any emotion that had pain for its
foundations could--I have imagined her as coming to me in my cell, and
leading me out into the freedom beyond the fortress.

XIV Of the Sorrow Songs I walk through the churchyard To lay this body
down; I know moon-rise, I know star-rise; I walk in the moonlight, I
walk in the starlight; I'll lie in the grave and stretch out my arms,
I'll go to judgment in the evening of the day, And my soul and thy
soul shall meet that day, When I lay this body down.

But she saw that his eyes remained fixed upon the things that he did
not know, and on that past era of their love, monotonous and soothing
in his memory because it was vague, and now rent, as with a sword-
wound, by the news of that minute on the Island in the Bois, by
moonlight, while he was dining with the Princesse des Laumes.

XLIX "Suspecting nought, I seek the balcony, In the same habits which
I mentioned, dressed; As more than once or twice (still happily) I did
before; meanwhile the goodly vest Was in the moonlight clearly seen,
and I, In aspect not unlike her, in the rest Resembling much Geneura's
shape and cheer, One visage well another might appear.

After I had said my prayers, and the candle had burnt out, I remember
how I still sat looking at the moonlight on the water, as if I could
hope to read my fortune in it, as in a bright book; or to see my
mother with her child, coming from Heaven, along that shining path, to
look upon me as she had looked when I last saw her sweet face.

And see you this, my boy, there comes in all lives a time, towards
which you still have far to go, when the weary eyes can endure but one
kind of light, the light which a fine evening like this prepares for
us in the stillroom of darkness, when the ears can listen to no music
save what the moonlight breathes through the flute of silence.

Thence home, and there to the office and did some business, and so
with my wife for half an hour walking in the moonlight, and it being
cold, frosty weather, walking in the garden, and then home to supper,
and so by the fireside to have my head combed, as I do now often do,
by Deb., whom I love should be fiddling about me, and so to bed.

So stood Queen Aphrodite, as she stands Unmoved in her bright mansion,
when in vain Some naked maiden stretches helpless hands And shifts the
magic wheel, and burns the grain, And cannot win her lover back again,
Nor her old heart of quiet any more, Where moonlight floods the dim
Sicilian main, And the cool wavelets break along the shore.

"Bill Starkey," continued John, "did not mean to frighten his brother
into fits when he dressed up like a ghost and ran after him in the
moonlight; but he did; and that bright, handsome little fellow, that
might have been the pride of any mother's heart is just no better than
an idiot, and never will be, if he lives to be eighty years old."

And soon after, there came one on horseback and knocked at the gate in
great haste; and when Sir Launcelot heard this, he arose and looked
out of the window, and saw by the moonlight three knights riding after
that one man, and all three lashed on him with their swords, and that
one knight turned on them knightly again and defended himself.

Row on a Chinese pig-boat," said he, sententiously, showing them one
after another.--"Chief mate dirked by a comprador.--Junk ashore off
Hakodate.--Somali muleteer being flogged.--Star- shell bursting over
camp at Berbera.--Slave-dhow being chased round Tajurrah Bah.--Soldier
lying dead in the moonlight outside Suakin.--throat cut by Fuzzies.

The moonlight was my dearer day; Then would I wander far away, _10
And, lingering on the wild brook's shore To hear its unremitting roar,
Would lose in the ideal flow All sense of overwhelming woe; Or at the
noiseless noon of night _15 Would climb some heathy mountain's height,
And listen to the mystic sound That stole in fitful gasps around.

Go shout it to the emerald seas-give word to Erin now, Her honorable
gentlemen are cleared--and this is how: They only paid the Moonlighter
his cattle-hocking price, They only helped the murderer with council's
best advice, But--sure it keeps their honor white--the learned Court
believes They never gave a piece of plate to murderers and thieves.

But, children, at midnight, When soft the winds blow; When clear falls
the moonlight; When spring-tides are low: When sweet airs come seaward
From heaths starr'd with broom; And high rocks throw mildly On the
blanch'd sands a gloom: Up the still, glistening beaches, Up the
creeks we will hie; Over banks of bright seaweed The ebb-tide leaves
dry.

So, soon after, there came one on horseback, and knocked at the gate
in great haste, and when Sir Launcelot heard this, he arose up and
looked out at the window, and saw by the moonlight three knights came
riding after that one man, and all three lashed on him at once with
swords, and that one knight turned on them knightly again, and
defended him.

This ecstasy, this forgetfulness of living, comes to the artist,
caught up and out of himself in a sheet of flame; it comes to the
soldier, war-mad on a stricken field and refusing quarter; and it came
to Buck, leading the pack, sounding the old wolf-cry, straining after
the food that was alive and that fled swiftly before him through the
moonlight.

Among other stories related in the social circle of his friends, who,
according to custom, amused each other by repeating ancient tales and
traditions, he was informed, that if any knight, unattended, entered
an adjacent plain by moonlight, and challenged an adversary to appear,
he would be immediately encountered by a spirit in the form of a
knight.

I found the old man's body in the moonlight Hanging beneath the window
of his chamber, Among the branches of a pine: he could not Have fallen
there, for all his limbs lay heaped _75 And effortless; 'tis true
there was no blood... Favour me, Sir; it much imports your house That
all should be made clear; to tell the ladies That I request their
presence.

And in the warm hedge grew lush eglantine, Green cowbind and the
moonlight-colour'd May, And cherry-blossoms, and white cups whose wine
Was the bright dew yet drain'd not by the day; And wild roses, and ivy
serpentine, With its dark buds and leaves wandering astray; And
flowers, azure, black, and streak'd with gold, Fairer than any waken'd
eyes behold.

Well, then, when I am lying awake at night, and the pale moonlight
streams through the latticed casement, strange fancies crowd upon my
poor mad brain, and I sometimes think that if we could hit upon some
word for you to use whenever I am about to relapse--some word that
teems with hidden meaning--like "Basingstoke"--it might recall me to
my saner self.

One cloudy moonlight night, in the third week of December (I think the
twenty-second of the month) in the year 1757, I was walking on a
retired part of the quay by the Seine for the refreshment of the
frosty air, at an hour's distance from my place of residence in the
Street of the School of Medicine, when a carriage came along behind
me, driven very fast.

And it unfurled its heaven-coloured pinions, With stars of fire
spotting the stream below; And from above into the Sun's dominions
_395 Flinging a glory, like the golden glow In which Spring clothes
her emerald-winged minions, All interwoven with fine feathery snow And
moonlight splendour of intensest rime, With which frost paints the
pines in winter time.

Things outside seemed also fixed in mute expectation, so as not to
disturb the moonlight which, duplicating each of them and throwing it
back by the extension, forwards, of a shadow denser and more concrete
than its substance, had made the whole landscape seem at once thinner
and longer, like a map which, after being folded up, is spread out
upon the ground.

Thus created were the islands, Rocks were fastened in the ocean,
Pillars of the sky were planted, Fields and forests were created,
Checkered stones of many colors, Gleaming in the silver sunlight, All
the rocks stood well established; But the singer, Wainamoinen, Had not
yet beheld the sunshine, Had not seen the golden moonlight, Still
remaining undelivered.

And in the warm hedge grew lush eglantine, Green cowbind and the
moonlight-coloured may, And cherry-blossoms, and white cups, whose
wine Was the bright dew, yet drained not by the day; _20 And wild
roses, and ivy serpentine, With its dark buds and leaves, wandering
astray; And flowers azure, black, and streaked with gold, Fairer than
any wakened eyes behold.

And nearer to the river's trembling edge There grew broad flag-
flowers, purple prank'd with white, And starry river-buds among the
sedge, And floating water-lilies, broad and bright, Which lit the oak
that overhung the hedge With moonlight beams of their own watery
light; And bulrushes, and reeds of such deep green As soothed the
dazzled eye with sober sheen.

To be sure,' Scott concluded, 'it is not much of a lion to show a
stranger; but I wanted to see it again myself, for I assure you after
I constructed it, Mamma (Mrs. Scott) and I both of us thought it so
fine, we turned out to see it by moonlight, and walked backwards from
it to the cottage-door in admiration of our own magnificence and its
picturesque effect.

Thus the oak replies to Sampsa: "I for thee will gladly furnish Wood
to build the hero's vessel; I am tall, and sound, and hardy, Have no
flaws within my body; Three times in the months of summer, In the
warmest of the seasons, Does the sun dwell in my tree-top, On my trunk
the moonlight glimmers, In my branches sings the cuckoo, In my top her
nestlings slumber.

I remember in fact that as we pushed into his little chamber, where
the bed had not been slept in at all and the window, uncovered to the
moonlight, made the place so clear that there was no need of striking
a match--I remember how I suddenly dropped, sank upon the edge of the
bed from the force of the idea that he must know how he really, as
they say, "had" me.

TOINE MADAME HUSSON'S ROSIER THE ADOPTED SON A COWARD OLD MONGILET
MOONLIGHT THE FIRST SNOWFALL SUNDAYS OF A BOURGEOIS A RECOLLECTION OUR
LETTERS THE LOVE OF LONG AGO FRIEND JOSEPH THE EFFEMINATES OLD AMABLE
TOINE He was known for thirty miles round was father Toine--fat Toine,
Toine- my-extra, Antoine Macheble, nicknamed Burnt-Brandy--the
innkeeper of Tournevent.

Down hastily he sprung from selle, And, in his haste, wellnigh he
fell; 600 To the squire's hand the rein he threw, And spoke no word as
he withdrew: But yet the moonlight did betray, The falcon-crest was
soil'd with clay; And plainly might Fitz-Eustace see, 605 By stains
upon the charger's knee, And his left side, that on the moor He had
not kept his footing sure.

In the "Vetßlapanchavinsati," or Twenty-five Tales of a Vampyre
(concerning which collection see Appendix to the preceding volumes, p.
230), the fifth recital is to this purpose: There was a Brßhman in
Ajjayini (Oojein) whose name was Harisvamin; he had a son named
Devasvamin and a daughter far famed for her wondrous beauty and
rightly called Somaprabha (Moonlight).

Running most of the time, chattering all the time, snatching the
boards from each other's backs as if they were some coveted treasure,
getting up eager rivalries between different companies, pouring great
choruses of ridicule on the heads of all shirkers, they made the whole
scene so enlivening that I gladly stayed out in the moonlight for the
whole time to watch it.

Built in Tudor days, the old red brick of the walls looks eminently
picturesque in the midst of a bower of green, the beautiful lawn, with
its old sun-dial, adding the true note of harmony to its foregrounds,
and now, on this warm early autumn night, the leaves slightly turned
to russets and gold, the old garden looked singularly poetic and
peaceful in the moonlight.

Amid the din and the shouting of the fight, and the confusion
inseparable upon a night engagement, especially one where many
thousand combatants were pent and whirled together in a narrow and
uneven area, the necessary manoeuvres were impracticable; and though
many companies still fought on desperately, wherever the moonlight
showed them the semblance of a foe, [THUC.

The fact that it is difficult to aim anything but imprecations
accurately by moonlight, that they were upset by the sudden and
unexpected manner of my advent, and that I was a rather rapidly moving
target saved me from the various deadly projectiles of the enemy and
permitted me to reach the shadows of the surrounding peaks before an
orderly pursuit could be organized.

Throughout the night, when the troops were encamped by the whale-
boats, a black figure danced in the strong moonlight on the sand-bar
and shouted that Khartoum the accursed one was dead,--was dead,--was
dead,--that two steamers were rock- staked on the Nile outside the
city, and that of all their crews there remained not one; and Khartoum
was dead,--was dead,--was dead!

This garden was oblong in shape, with an alley of large poplars at the
further end, tolerably tall forest trees in the corners, and an
unshaded space in the centre, where could be seen a very large,
solitary tree, then several fruit-trees, gnarled and bristling like
bushes, beds of vegetables, a melon patch, whose glass frames sparkled
in the moonlight, and an old well.

Though Siddhartha fled from the self a thousand times, stayed in
nothingness, stayed in the animal, in the stone, the return was
inevitable, inescapable was the hour, when he found himself back in
the sunshine or in the moonlight, in the shade or in the rain, and was
once again his self and Siddhartha, and again felt the agony of the
cycle which had been forced upon him.

So at times when many people sicken and die, as at the beginning of
the rainy season, all the inhabitants of a district, armed with
branches and clubs, go out by moonlight to the fields, where they beat
and stamp on the ground with wild howls till morning, believing that
this drives away the devils; and for the same purpose they rush
through the village with burning torches.

Wainamoinen, old and trusty, Lingering within his dungeon Thirty
summers altogether, And of winters, also thirty, Peaceful on the waste
of waters, On the broad-sea's yielding bosom, Well reflected, long
considered, How unborn to live and flourish In the spaces wrapped in
darkness, In uncomfortable limits, Where he had not seen the
moonlight, Had not seen the silver sunshine.

War with the Creeks.--Patriotism of Crockett.--Remonstrances of his
Wife.--Enlistment.--The Rendezvous.--Adventure of the Scouts.--
Friendly Indians,--A March through the Forest.--Picturesque Scene.--
The Midnight Alarm.--March by Moonlight.--Chagrin of Crockett.--
Advance into Alabama.--War's Desolations.--Indian Stoicism.--Anecdotes
of Andrew Jackson.--Battles, Carnage, and Woe.

Renee pressed the pace, and threading dense covers of foliage they
reached the level of the valley, where for a couple of miles she led
them, stretching away merrily, now in shadow, now in moonlight,
between high land and meadow land, and a line of poplars in the
meadows winding with the river that fed the vale and shot forth gleams
of silvery disquiet by rustic bridge and mill.

Suddenly we came on a flat with a small tarn, whose waters gleamed
illusively in the pale moonlight: the opposite flanks of the valley
were so well reflected on its gloomy surface, that we were at once
brought to a stand-still on its banks: it looked like a chasm, and
whether to jump across it, or go down it, or along it, was the
question, so deceptive was the spectral landscape.

Suddenly we came on a flat with a small tarn, whose waters gleamed
illusively in the pale moonlight: the opposite flanks of the valley
were so well reflected on its gloomy surface, that we were at once
brought to a stand-still on its banks: it looked like a chasm, and
whether to jump across it, or go down it, or along it, was the
question, so deceptive was the spectral landscape.

Come to us with thine enchantment, Speak the magic words of healing,
That my people may not perish; Give to all alleviation From their
sicknesses and sorrows; In the morning, in the evening, Let their
wasting ailments vanish; Drive the Death-child from Wainola, Nevermore
to visit Northland, Never in the course of ages, Never while the
moonlight glimmers O'er the lakes of Kalevala.

There was fighting up the street of the village, and a struggle in the
space where Rinaldo had fallen; successive yellowish shots under the
rising moonlight, cries from Italian lips, quick words of command from
German in Italian, and one sturdy bull's roar of a voice that called
across the tumult to the Austro-Italian soldiery, "Venite fratelli!--
come, brothers, come under our banner!

Signs by moonlight, long embraces, tears flowing over yielded hands,
all the fevers of the flesh and the languors of tenderness could not
be separated from the balconies of great castles full of indolence,
from boudoirs with silken curtains and thick carpets, well-filled
flower-stands, a bed on a raised dias, nor from the flashing of
precious stones and the shoulder-knots of liveries.

Mullins swore that it was a dark night; he admitted, under
examination, that there may have been the stars, or at least some of
the less important of them, though he had made no attempt, as brought
out on cross-examination, to count them: there may have been, too, the
electric lights, and Mullins was not willing to deny that it was quite
possible that there was more or less moonlight.

QUINCE Some of your French crowns have no hair at all, and then you
will play bare-faced.-- But, masters, here are your parts: and I am to
entreat you, request you, and desire you, to con them by to-morrow
night; and meet me in the palace wood, a mile without the town, by
moonlight; there will we rehearse: for if we meet in the city, we
shall be dogg'd with company, and our devices known.

You would dance at a ball a dozen times with a girl engaged to a man--
who drenched you with a tumbler at the hotel bar, and off you all
marched to the sands and exchanged shots from revolvers; and both of
you, they say, saw the body of a drowned sailor in the water, in the
moonlight, heaving nearer and nearer, and you stretched your man just
as the body was flung up by a wave between you.

And, as if to compensate for the loss of the moonlight, the heavens
were illuminated by a superb shower of falling stars, far exceeding,
both in number and in brilliancy, the phenomena which are commonly
distinguished as the August and November meteors; in fact, Gallia was
passing through that meteoric ring which is known to lie exterior to
the earth's orbit, but almost concentric with it.

Build a metal wall around us, From the valleys to the heavens; Build
of stone a mighty fortress On the borders of Wainola, Where thy people
live and labor, As their dwelling-place forever, Sure protection to
thy people, Where the wicked may not enter, Nor the thieves break
through and pilfer, Never while the moonlight glistens, And the Sun
brings golden blessings To the plains of Kalevala.

The river had slowly become enveloped in a thick white fog which lay
close to the water, so that when I stood up I could see neither the
river, nor my feet, nor my boat; but could perceive only the tops of
the reeds, and farther off in the distance the plain, lying white in
the moonlight, with big black patches rising up from it towards the
sky, which were formed by groups of Italian poplars.

The moon was darting through the lattices Its yellow light, warm as
the beams of day-- So warm, that to admit the dewy breeze, The old man
opened them; the moonlight lay _1435 Upon a lake whose waters wove
their play Even to the threshold of that lonely home: Within was seen
in the dim wavering ray The antique sculptured roof, and many a tome
Whose lore had made that sage all that he had become.

They were all love, lovers, sweethearts, persecuted ladies fainting in
lonely pavilions, postilions killed at every stage, horses ridden to
death on every page, sombre forests, heartaches, vows, sobs, tears and
kisses, little skiffs by moonlight, nightingales in shady groves,
"gentlemen" brave as lions, gentle as lambs, virtuous as no one ever
was, always well dressed, and weeping like fountains.

I had no horse, and the deep and wheeling stream of the river,
rendered turbid by the late tumult of which its channel had been the
scene, and seeming yet more so under the doubtful influence of an
imperfect moonlight, had no inviting influence for a pedestrian by no
means accustomed to wade rivers, and who had lately seen horsemen
weltering, in this dangerous passage, up to the very saddle-laps.

I knew not who had framed these wonders then, Nor had I heard the
story of their deeds; But dwellings of a race of mightier men, And
monuments of less ungentle creeds _760 Tell their own tale to him who
wisely heeds The language which they speak; and now, to me The
moonlight making pale the blooming weeds, The bright stars shining in
the breathless sea, Interpreted those scrolls of mortal mystery.

During the preliminary operations, another veteran commander in these
wars, Valentin Pardieu de la Motte, recently created Count of
Everbecque by Philip, who had been for a long time general-in- chief
of the artillery, and was one of the most famous and experienced
officers in the Spanish service, went out one fine moonlight night to
reconnoitre the enemy, and to superintend the erection of batteries.

And, when the blinding tears had fallen, I saw That column, and those
corpses, and the moon, And felt the poisonous tooth of hunger gnaw My
vitals, I rejoiced, as if the boon Of senseless death would be
accorded soon;-- _1355 When from that stony gloom a voice arose,
Solemn and sweet as when low winds attune The midnight pines; the
grate did then unclose, And on that reverend form the moonlight did
repose.

went on to say, that from his window he had afterwards, and late at
night, seen my aunt give this person money outside the garden rails in
the moonlight, who then slunk away - into the ground again, as he
thought probable - and was seen no more: while my aunt came hurriedly
and secretly back into the house, and had, even that morning, been
quite different from her usual self; which preyed on Mr. Dick's mind.

Wonder and joy a passing faintness threw _640 Over my brow--a hand
supported me, Whose touch was magic strength; an eye of blue Looked
into mine, like moonlight, soothingly; And a voice said:--'Thou must a
listener be This day--two mighty Spirits now return, _645 Like birds
of calm, from the world's raging sea, They pour fresh light from
Hope's immortal urn; A tale of human power--despair not--list and
learn!

But they would not excuse me and they all cried, 'Verily, thou
deserves splitting or quartering;[FN#143] thou who wouldst abandon
this beauty and perfection and brilliancy and stature and symmetry and
wouldst throw thyself upon a slave-girl black as char-coal; thou who
wouldst leave this semblance which is like the splendours of moonlight
and wouldst follow yon fulsome figure which resembleth the murks of
night.

de Saint-Loup, and a different kind of pleasure that I now derive from
taking walks only in the evenings, from visiting by moonlight the
roads on which I used to play, as a child, in the sunshine; while the
bedroom, in which I shall presently fall asleep instead of dressing
for dinner, from afar off I can see it, as we return from our walk,
with its lamp shining through the window, a solitary beacon in the
night.

The Hudson is four miles wide at Tappan, and squalls have space enough
to gather force; hence, when old skippers saw the misty form of a ship
steal out from the shadows of the western hills, then fly like a gull
from shore to shore, catching the moonlight on her topsails, but
showing no lanterns, they made to windward and dropped anchor, unless
their craft were stanch and their pilot's brains unvexed with liquor.

Wainamoinen, old and faithful, Straightway hastened to the court-yard,
Looked upon the far horizon, Saw once more the silver sunshine, Saw
again the golden moonlight, Bringing peace, and joy, and plenty, To
the people of the Northland, And the minstrel spake these measures:
"Greetings to thee, Sun of fortune, Greetings to thee, Moon of good-
luck, Welcome sunshine, welcome moonlight, Golden is the dawn of
morning!

Mana's son with crooked fingers, Iron-pointed, copper fingers, Pulls
of nets, at least a thousand, Through the river of Tuoni, Sets them
lengthwise, sets them crosswise, In the fatal, darksome river, That
the sleeping Wainamomen, Friend and brother of the waters, May not
leave the isle of Mana, Never in the course of ages, Never leave the
death-land castles, Never while the moonlight glimmers On the empire
of Tuoni.

Another Splendour on his mouth alit, _100 That mouth, whence it was
wont to draw the breath Which gave it strength to pierce the guarded
wit, And pass into the panting heart beneath With lightning and with
music: the damp death Quenched its caress upon his icy lips; _105 And,
as a dying meteor stains a wreath Of moonlight vapour, which the cold
night clips, It flushed through his pale limbs, and passed to its
eclipse.

And it had been a source of keen pleasure when, below the narrow
ribbon of the violin-part, delicate, unyielding, substantial and
governing the whole, he had suddenly perceived, where it was trying to
surge upwards in a flowing tide of sound, the mass of the piano-part,
multiform, coherent, level, and breaking everywhere in melody like the
deep blue tumult of the sea, silvered and charmed into a minor key by
the moonlight.

Wainamoinen, ancient minstrel, Saw the fragments of the treasure
Floating on the billows landward, Fragments of the lid in colors, Much
rejoicing, spake as follows: "Thence will come the sprouting seed-
grain, The beginning of good fortune, The unending of resources, From
the plowing and the sowing, From the glimmer of the moonlight, From
the splendor of the sunshine, On the fertile plains of Suomi, On the
meads of Kalevala.

They bore her to a bark, and the swift stroke Of silent rowers clove
the blue moonlight seas, Until upon their path the morning broke; They
anchored then, where, be there calm or breeze, _2905 The gloomiest of
the drear Symplegades Shakes with the sleepless surge;--the Ethiop
there Wound his long arms around her, and with knees Like iron clasped
her feet, and plunged with her Among the closing waves out of the
boundless air.

Then the hero of the waters Called together all his people, Spake
these words of ancient wisdom: "Every child of Northland, listen,
Whether poor, or fortune-favored: Never bow before an image Born of
molten gold and silver: Never while the sunlight brightens, Never
while the moonlight glimmers, Choose a maiden of the metals, Choose a
bride from gold created Cold the lips of golden maiden, Silver
breathes the breath of sorrow.

Thereupon the duck departed, Hither, thither, swam, and circled, Dived
beneath the foam and billow, Gathered Wainamoinen's tear-drops From
the blue-sea's pebbly bottom, From the deep, pellucid waters; Brought
them to the great magician, Beautifully formed and colored, Glistening
in the silver sunshine, Glimmering in the golden moonlight, Many-
colored as the rainbow, Fitting ornaments for heroes, Jewels for the
maids of beauty.

A scene of joy and wonder to behold That river's shapes and shadows
changing ever, Where the broad sunrise filled with deepening gold Its
whirlpools, where all hues did spread and quiver; _4750 And where
melodious falls did burst and shiver Among rocks clad with flowers,
the foam and spray Sparkled like stars upon the sunny river, Or when
the moonlight poured a holier day, One vast and glittering lake around
green islands lay.

Madame de Morcerf had lived there since leaving her house; the
continual silence of the spot oppressed her; still, seeing that Albert
continually watched her countenance to judge the state of her
feelings, she constrained herself to assume a monotonous smile of the
lips alone, which, contrasted with the sweet and beaming expression
that usually shone from her eyes, seemed like "moonlight on a statue,"
-- yielding light without warmth.

As for ourselves, the next day being Sunday, with no need to be up and
stirring before high mass, if it was a moonlight night and warm, then,
instead of taking us home at once, my father, in his thirst for
personal distinction, would lead us on a long walk round by the
Calvary, which my mother's utter incapacity for taking her bearings,
or even for knowing which road she might be on, made her regard as a
triumph of his strategic genius.

I liked the hush, the gloom, the quaintness of these retreats in the
day; but I by no means coveted a night's repose on one of those wide
and heavy beds: shut in, some of them, with doors of oak; shaded,
others, with wrought old English hangings crusted with thick work,
portraying effigies of strange flowers, and stranger birds, and
strangest human beings, -- all which would have looked strange,
indeed, by the pallid gleam of moonlight.

Each pedestrian could see no halo but his or her own, which never
deserted the head-shadow, whatever its vulgar unsteadiness might be;
but adhered to it, and persistently beautified it; till the erratic
motions seemed an inherent part of the irradiation, and the fumes of
their breathing a component of the night's mist; and the spirit of the
scene, and of the moonlight, and of Nature, seemed harmoniously to
mingle with the spirit of wine.

How well I recollect our sitting there, talking in whispers; or their
talking, and my respectfully listening, I ought rather to say; the
moonlight falling a little way into the room, through the window,
painting a pale window on the floor, and the greater part of us in
shadow, except when Steerforth dipped a match into a phosphorus-box,
when he wanted to look for anything on the board, and shed a blue
glare over us that was gone directly!

in the place of the Lily, there was a damsel dressed in white shining
silks, fairer than the enchanted flower, straighter than the stalk of
it; her head slightly drooping, like the moon on a border of the
night; her bosom like the swell of the sea in moonlight; her eyes
dark, under a low arch of darker lashes, like stars on the skirts of
storm; and she was the very dream of loveliness, formed to freeze with
awe, and to inflame with passion.

I know nothing in life more fascinating than the nocturnal ascent of
an unknown river, leading far into an enemy's country, where one
glides in the dim moonlight between dark hills and meadows, each turn
of the channel making it seem like an inland lake, and cutting you off
as by a barrier from all behind,--with no sign of human life, but an
occasional picket-fire left glimmering beneath the bank, or the yelp
of a dog from some low-lying plantation.

The broad and yellow moon Shone dimly through her form-- _80 That form
of faultless symmetry; The pearly and pellucid car Moved not the
moonlight's line: 'Twas not an earthly pageant: Those who had looked
upon the sight, _85 Passing all human glory, Saw not the yellow moon,
Saw not the mortal scene, Heard not the night-wind's rush, Heard not
an earthly sound, _90 Saw but the fairy pageant, Heard but the
heavenly strains That filled the lonely dwelling.

_25 Will they, when morning's beam Flows through those wells of light,
Seek far from noise and day some western cave, Where woods and streams
with soft and pausing winds A lulling murmur weave?-- _30 Ianthe doth
not sleep The dreamless sleep of death: Nor in her moonlight chamber
silently Doth Henry hear her regular pulses throb, Or mark her
delicate cheek _35 With interchange of hues mock the broad moon,
Outwatching weary night, Without assured reward.

Manuel's talk was slow and gentle-all about pretty girls in Madeira
washing clothes in the dry beds of streams, by moonlight, under waving
bananas; legends of saints, and tales of queer dances or fights away
in the cold Newfoundland baiting-ports Salters was mainly
agricultural; for, though he read "Josephus" and expounded it, his
mission in life was to prove the value of green manures, and specially
of clover, against every form of phosphate whatsoever.

It was a fresh kind of place, all circumstances considered, where the
wind from the river had room to turn itself round; and there were two
or three trees in it, and there was the stump of a ruined windmill,
and there was the Old Green Copper Ropewalk,--whose long and narrow
vista I could trace in the moonlight, along a series of wooden frames
set in the ground, that looked like superannuated haymaking-rakes
which had grown old and lost most of their teeth.

; he could smell the heated iron of the barber whom he used to have in
to singe his hair while Loredan went to fetch the little working girl;
could feel the torrents of rain which fell so often that spring, the
ice-cold homeward drive in his victoria, by moonlight; all the network
of mental habits, of seasonable impressions, of sensory reactions,
which had extended over a series of weeks its uniform meshes, by which
his body now found itself inextricably held.

The Governor of the prison had been warned by Ukleet of her coming,
and the doors and bars opened before her unchallenged, till she stood
in the cell of Ruark; her eyes, that were alone unveiled, scanned the
countenance of the Chief, the fevered lustre-jet of his looks, and by
the little moonlight in the cell she saw with a glance the straw-heap
and the fetters, and the black-bread and water untasted on the bench--
signs of his misery and desire for her coming.

_50 Well, my path lately lay through a great city Into the woody hills
surrounding it: A sentinel was sleeping at the gate: When there was
heard a sound, so loud, it shook The towers amid the moonlight, yet
more sweet _55 Than any voice but thine, sweetest of all; A long, long
sound, as it would never end: And all the inhabitants leaped suddenly
Out of their rest, and gathered in the streets, Looking in wonder up
to Heaven, while yet _60 The music pealed along.

How Columbus first laid his plans before the king of Portugal, only to
meet with rebuffs; how he then went to Spain and after many
discouragements found a patron in Queen Isabella; how with three small
ships he set out from Palos, August 3, 1492 A.D.; how after leaving
the Canaries he sailed week after week over an unknown sea; and how at
last, on the early morning of October 12, he sighted in the moonlight
the glittering coral strand of one of the Bahama Islands.

In a bag the chips she gathered, Took them to the ancient court-yard,
There to make enchanted arrows, Arrows for the great magician, There
to shape them into weapons, Weapons for the skilful archer, Since the
mighty oak has fallen, Now has lost its hundred branches, That the
North may see the sunshine, See the gentle gleam of moonlight, That
the clouds may keep their courses, May extend the vault of heaven Over
every lake and river, O'er the banks of every island.

A placid sea, which after much disturbance had sighed itself to rest,
and a high, steady barometer promised a fifty hours' passage to
Yokohama, and when Dr. and Mrs. Hepburn and I left Hakodate, by
moonlight, on the night of the 14th, as the only passengers in the
Hiogo Maru, Captain Moore, her genial, pleasant master, congratulated
us on the rapid and delightful passage before us, and we separated at
midnight with many projects for pleasant intercourse and occupation.

Thou, O Ukko, art my father, Thou hast given me form and feature; As
the sea-gull on the ocean, As the duck upon the waters, Shines the Sun
upon the swallow, Shines as bright upon the sparrow, Gives the joy-
birds song and gladness, Does not shine on me unhappy; Nevermore will
shine the sunlight, Never will the moonlight glimmer On this hapless
son and orphan; Do not know my hero-father, Cannot tell who was my
mother; On the shore, perhaps the gray-duck Left me in the sand to
perish.

The track of the vessel could be seen from the pier, on the line of a
bar of moonlight; and thinking, that the abominable woman, if aboard
she was, had coolly provided herself with a continental passport--or
had it done for two by her accomplice, that Weyburn, before she left
London--Lady Charlotte sent a loathing gaze at the black figure of the
boat on the water, untroubled by any reminder of her share in the
conspiracy of events, which was to be her brother's chastisement to
his end.

THE PIRATES OF PENZANCE OR THE SLAVE OF DUTY DRAMATIS PERSONAE MAJOR-
GENERAL STANLEY THE PIRATE KING SAMUEL (his Lieutenant) SERGEANT OF
POLICE MABEL, EDITH, KATE, and ISABEL (General Stanley's Daughters)
RUTH (a Pirate Maid of all Work) Chorus of Pirates, Police, and
General Stanley's Daughters ACT I A rocky sea-shore on the coast of
Cornwall ACT II A ruined chapel by moonlight First produced at the Op-
ra Comique on April 3, 1880 ACT I (Scene.-A rocky seashore on the
coast of Cornwall.

There is the beauty of those immaculate souls, and then the
loveliness, yea, the worshipfulness of their patience, the majesty of
their gifts, the dignity of their solemn and chaste sufferings, the
eloquence of their silence; the moonlight of Mary's throne lighting up
their land of pain and unspeechful expectation; the silver-winged
angels voyaging through the deeps of that mysterious realm; and above
all, that unseen Face of Jesus which is so well remembered that it
seems to be almost seen!

No fairy forms, in Yarrow's bowers, 80 Trip o'er the walks, or tend
the flowers, Fair as the elves whom Janet saw By moonlight dance on
Carterhaugh; No youthful Baron's left to grace The Forest-Sheriff's
lonely chase, 85 And ape, in manly step and tone, The majesty of
Oberon: And she is gone, whose lovely face Is but her least and lowest
grace; Though if to Sylphid Queen 'twere given, 90 To show our earth
the charms of Heaven, She could not glide along the air, With form
more light, or face more fair.

Thus our hero reached the water, Rested five years in the ocean, Six
long years, and even seven years, Till the autumn of the eighth year,
When at last he leaves the waters, Stops upon a promontory, On a coast
bereft of verdure; On his knees he leaves the ocean, On the land he
plants his right foot, On the solid ground his left foot, Quickly
turns his hands about him, Stands erect to see the sunshine, Stands to
see the golden moonlight, That he may behold the Great Bear, That he
may the stars consider.

Ahto, king of all the waters, Ruler of a thousand grottoes, Take a
pole of seven fathoms, Search with this the deepest waters, Rummage
well the lowest bottoms; Stir up all the reeds and sea-weeds, Hither
drive a school of gray-pike, Drive them to our magic fish-net, From
the haunts in pike abounding, From the caverns, and the trout-holes,
From the whirlpools of the deep-sea, From the bottomless abysses,
Where the sunshine never enters, Where the moonlight never visits, And
the sands are never troubled.

But so it was, and the night before Dobbin came to join these young
people--on a fine brilliant moonlight night of May- -so warm and balmy
that the windows were flung open to the balcony, from which George and
Mrs. Crawley were gazing upon the calm ocean spread shining before
them, while Rawdon and Jos were engaged at backgammon within--Amelia
couched in a great chair quite neglected, and watching both these
parties, felt a despair and remorse such as were bitter companions for
that tender lonely soul.

In his early days poetry was formal and artificial, after the manner
of the eighteenth century; the romantic movement had hardly gained
recognition in England; Burns was known only to his own countrymen;
Wordsworth was ridiculed or barely tolerated by the critics; and poets
on both sides of the Atlantic were still writing of larks and
nightingales, of moonlight in the vale, of love in a rose-covered
cottage, of ivy-mantled towers, weeping willows, neglected graves,--a
medley of tears and sentimentality.

Boasted then young Youkahainen, Thinking Waino dead and buried, These
the boastful words be uttered: "Nevermore, old Wainamoinen, Nevermore
in all thy life-time, While the golden moonlight glistens, Nevermore
wilt fix thy vision On the meadows of Wainola, On the plains of
Kalevala; Full six years must swim the ocean, Tread the waves for
seven summers, Eight years ride the foamy billows, In the broad
expanse of water; Six long autumns as a fir-tree, Seven winters as a
pebble; Eight long summers as an aspen.

And one cried out hoping yet to stay the gods, though nearly all were
gone, saying:-- 'O gods, rob not the earth of the dim hush that hangs
round all Your temples, bereave not all the world of old romance, take
not the glamour from the moonlight nor tear the wonder out of the
white mists in every land; for, O ye gods of the childhood of the
world, when You have left the earth you shall have taken the mystery
from the sea and all its glory from antiquity, and You shall have
wrenched out hope from the dim future.

Andrew Fairservice undertook this task with great cheerfulness, and
promised to bring me up from Trinlay-Knowe, "twa true-blue
Presbyterians like himself, that would face and out-face baith the
Pope, the Devil, and the Pretender--and blythe will I be o' their
company mysell, for the very last night that I was at Osbaldistone
Hall, the blight be on ilka blossom in my bit yard, if I didna see
that very picture" (pointing to the full-length portrait of Miss
Vernon's grandfather) "walking by moonlight in the garden!

But now, in the moonlight, she could not catch the expression of the
lazy blue eyes; she could only see the outline of the firm chin, the
corner of the strong mouth, the well-cut massive shape of the
forehead; truly, nature had meant well by Sir Percy; his faults must
all be laid at the door of that poor, half-crazy mother, and of the
distracted heart-broken father, neither of whom had cared for the
young life which was sprouting up between them, and which, perhaps,
their very carelessness was already beginning to wreck.

CHAPTER XVI TREATS OF A MIDNIGHT BELL, AND OF A SCENE OF EARLY MORNING
On a round of the mountains rising from Osteno, South eastward of
Lugano, the Esquart party rose from the natural grotto and headed
their carriages up and down the defiles, halting for a night at Rovio,
a little village below the Generoso, lively with waterfalls and
watercourses; and they fell so in love with the place, that after
roaming along the flowery borderways by moonlight, they resolved to
rest there two or three days and try some easy ascents.

But on some days, though very rarely, the chest-of-drawers would long
since have shed its momentary adornments, there would no longer, as we
turned into the Rue du Saint-Esprit, be any reflection from the
western sky burning along the line of window-panes; the pond beneath
the Calvary would have lost its fiery glow, sometimes indeed had
changed already to an opalescent pallor, while a long ribbon of
moonlight, bent and broken and broadened by every ripple upon the
water's surface, would be lying across it, from end to end.

No verdure more exquisite than earth's glazing of greenery, the blend
of ethereal azure and yellow; no gold more sheeny than the foregrounds
of sand shimmering in the slant of the sun; no blue more profound and
transparent than the middle distances; no neutral tints more subtle,
pure, delicate and sight-soothing than the French grey which robes the
clear-cut horizon; no variety of landscape more pronounced than the
alternations of glowing sunlight and snowy moonlight and twinkling
starlight, all streaming through diaphanous air.

Thou, the host of Tapio's mansion, Gracious host of Tapiola, Sable-
bearded god of woodlands, Golden lord of Northland forests, Thou, O
Tapio's worthy hostess, Queen of snowy woods, Mimerkki, Ancient dame
in sky-blue vesture, Fenland-queen in scarlet ribbons, Come I to
exchange my silver, To exchange my gold and silver; Gold I have, as
old as moonlight, Silver of the age of sunshine, In the first of years
was gathered, In the heat and pain of battle; It will rust within my
pouches, Soon will wear away and perish, If it be not used in trading.

In the meanwhile also the black ground was covered with herbage, and
the green banks interspersed with innumerable flowers, sweet to the
scent and the eyes, stars of pale radiance among the moonlight woods;
the sun became warmer, the nights clear and balmy; and my nocturnal
rambles were an extreme pleasure to me, although they were
considerably shortened by the late setting and early rising of the
sun, for I never ventured abroad during daylight, fearful of meeting
with the same treatment I had formerly endured in the first village
which I entered.

She looked dismally about her narrow little room, with its dull-
papered, pictureless walls, its small iron bedstead and empty book-
case; and a horrible choke came into her throat as she thought of her
own white room at Green Gables, where she would have the pleasant
consciousness of a great green still outdoors, of sweet peas growing
in the garden, and moonlight falling on the orchard, of the brook
below the slope and the spruce boughs tossing in the night wind beyond
it, of a vast starry sky, and the light from Diana's window shining
out through the gap in the trees.

In the pale moonlight, which lent a wanness of its own to the delicate
face where thoughtful care already mingled with the winning grace and
loveliness of youth, the too bright eye, the spiritual head, the lips
that pressed each other with such high resolve and courage of the
heart, the slight figure firm in its bearing and yet so very weak,
told their silent tale; but told it only to the wind that rustled by,
which, taking up its burden, carried, perhaps to some mother's pillow,
faint dreams of childhood fading in its bloom, and resting in the
sleep that knows no waking.

And perhaps some evening next spring, moved by a beam of moonlight
falling through the branches on the grass at their feet, they will
join and press their hands in memory of all this cruel and suppressed
suffering; and, perhaps, also this short embrace may infuse in their
veins a little of this thrill which they would not have known without
it, and will give to those two dead souls, brought to life in a
second, the rapid and divine sensation of this intoxication, of this
madness which gives to lovers more happiness in an instant than other
men can gather during a whole lifetime!

Thither, on a night of frosty moonlight, troops of carriages were
hurrying with the usual freightage for a country ball:--the squire who
will not make himself happy by seeing that his duty to the softer side
of his family must be performed during the comfortable hours when
bachelors snooze in arm-chairs, and his nobler dame who, not caring
for Port or tobacco, cheerfully accepts the order of things as
bequeathed to her: the everlastingly half-satisfied young man, who
looks forward to the hour when his cigar-light will shine; and the
damsel thrice demure as a cover for her eagerness.

came forth amain: And, when down charging, finger-tips she showed *
That gloomed like blackest night for sable stain, The Whites I could
not rescue, could not save * While ecstasy made tear, floods rail and
rain: The Pawns and Castles with their Queens fell low * And fled the
Whites nor could the brunt sustain: Yea, with her shaft of glance at
me she shot * And soon that shaft had pierced my heart and brain: She
gave me choice between her hosts, and I * The Whites like moonlight
first to choose was fain, Saying, ‘This argent folk best fitteth me *
I love them, but the Red by thee be ta'en!

At night the passion came, Like the fierce fiend of a distempered
dream, _225 And shook him from his rest, and led him forth Into the
darkness.--As an eagle, grasped In folds of the green serpent, feels
her breast Burn with the poison, and precipitates Through night and
day, tempest, and calm, and cloud, _230 Frantic with dizzying anguish,
her blind flight O'er the wide aery wilderness: thus driven By the
bright shadow of that lovely dream, Beneath the cold glare of the
desolate night, Through tangled swamps and deep precipitous dells,
_235 Startling with careless step the moonlight snake, He fled.

_405 Man, where the gloom of the long polar night Lowered o'er the
snow-clad rocks and frozen soil, Where scarce the hardiest herb that
braves the frost Basked in the moonlight's ineffectual glow, Shrank
with the plants, and darkened with the night; _410 Nor where the
tropics bound the realms of day With a broad belt of mingling cloud
and flame, Where blue mists through the unmoving atmosphere Scattered
the seeds of pestilence, and fed Unnatural vegetation, where the land
_415 Teemed with all earthquake, tempest and disease, Was man a nobler
being; slavery Had crushed him to his country's blood-stained dust.

Day by day I nursed the plant, and on the double flute _180 Played to
it on the sunny winter days Soft melodies, as sweet as April rain On
silent leaves, and sang those words in which Passion makes Echo taunt
the sleeping strings; And I would send tales of forgotten love _185
Late into the lone night, and sing wild songs Of maids deserted in the
olden time, And weep like a soft cloud in April's bosom Upon the
sleeping eyelids of the plant, So that perhaps it dreamed that Spring
was come, _190 And crept abroad into the moonlight air, And loosened
all its limbs, as, noon by noon, The sun averted less his oblique
beam.

Louhi, hostess of Pohyola, Thus addressed old Wainamoinen: "Know I
other mighty measures, Know I means that are efficient, And against
thy golden moonlight, And the splendor of thy sunshine, And thy
plowing, and thy reaping; In the rocks I'll sink the moonbeams, Hide
the sun within the mountain, Let the frost destroy thy sowings, Freeze
the crops on all thy corn-fields; Iron-hail I'll send from heaven, On
the richness of thine acres, On the barley of thy planting; I will
drive the bear from forests, Send thee Otso from the thickets, That he
may destroy thy cattle, May annihilate thy sheep-folds, May destroy
thy steeds at pasture.

And so she moved under the bridal veil, Which made the paleness of her
cheek more pale, And deepened the faint crimson of her mouth, _15 And
darkened her dark locks, as moonlight doth,-- And of the gold and
jewels glittering there She scarce felt conscious,--but the weary
glare Lay like a chaos of unwelcome light, Vexing the sense with
gorgeous undelight, _20 A moonbeam in the shadow of a cloud Was less
heavenly fair--her face was bowed, And as she passed, the diamonds in
her hair Were mirrored in the polished marble stair Which led from the
cathedral to the street; _25 And ever as she went her light fair feet
Erased these images.

It scarce seems now a wreck of human art, But, as it were Titanic; in
the heart Of Earth having assumed its form, then grown _495 Out of the
mountains, from the living stone, Lifting itself in caverns light and
high: For all the antique and learned imagery Has been erased, and in
the place of it The ivy and the wild-vine interknit _500 The volumes
of their many-twining stems; Parasite flowers illume with dewy gems
The lampless halls, and when they fade, the sky Peeps through their
winter-woof of tracery With moonlight patches, or star atoms keen,
_505 Or fragments of the day's intense serene;-- Working mosaic on
their Parian floors.

-- Porpoises -- Alligators -- Silchar -- Tigers -- Rice crops --
Cookies -- Munniporees -- Hockey -- Varnish -- Dance -- Nagas --
Excursion to Munnipore frontier -- Elephant bogged -- Bamboos --
_Cardiopteris_ -- Climate, etc., of Cachar -- Mosquitos -- Fall of
banks -- Silhet -- Oaks -- _Stylidium_ -- Tree-ferns -- Chattuc --
Megna -- Meteorology -- Palms -- Noacolly -- Salt-smuggling -- Delta
of Ganges and Megna -- Westward progress of Megna -- Peat -- Tide --
Waves -- Earthquakes -- Dangerous navigation -- Moonlight scenes --
Mud island -- Chittagong -- Mug tribes -- Views -- Trees -- Churs --
Flagstaff hill -- Coffee -- Pepper -- Tea, etc.

-- Porpoises -- Alligators -- Silchar -- Tigers -- Rice crops --
Cookies -- Munniporees -- Hockey -- Varnish -- Dance -- Nagas --
Excursion to Munnipore frontier -- Elephant bogged -- Bamboos --
_Cardiopteris_ -- Climate, etc., of Cachar -- Mosquitos -- Fall of
banks -- Silhet -- Oaks -- _Stylidium_ -- Tree-ferns -- Chattuc --
Megna -- Meteorology -- Palms -- Noa-colly -- Salt-smuggling -- Delta
of Ganges and Megna -- Westward progress of Megna -- Peat -- Tide --
Waves -- Earthquakes -- Dangerous navigation -- Moonlight scenes --
Mud island -- Chittagong -- Mug tribes -- Views -- Trees -- Churs --
Flagstaff hill -- Coffee -- Pepper -- Tea, etc.

It may have been an hour after the Major's departure from the
Colonel's house--Sir Michael was sleeping the sleep of the just;
Glorvina had arranged her black ringlets in the innumerable little
bits of paper, in which it was her habit to confine them; Lady O'Dowd,
too, had gone to her bed in the nuptial chamber, on the ground-floor,
and had tucked her musquito curtains round her fair form, when the
guard at the gates of the Commanding-Officer's compound beheld Major
Dobbin, in the moonlight, rushing towards the house with a swift step
and a very agitated countenance, and he passed the sentinel and went
up to the windows of the Colonel's bedchamber.

But what I did understand was this, that Legrandin was not altogether
truthful when he said that he cared only for churches, moonlight, and
youth; he cared also, he cared a very great deal, for people who lived
in country houses, and would be so much afraid, when in their company,
of incurring their displeasure that he would never dare to let them
see that he numbered, as well, among his friends middle-class people,
the families of solicitors and stockbrokers, preferring, if the truth
must be known, that it should be revealed in his absence, when he was
out of earshot, that judgment should go against him (if so it must) by
default: in a word, he was a snob.

Brilliant near thee stands the maiden, At thy shoulder thy companion,
Happy under thy protection, Beautiful as golden moonlight, Beautiful
upon thy bosom, Strong to do thy kindly bidding, Labor with thee as
thou wishest, Rake the hay upon thy meadows, Keep thy home in full
perfection, Spin for thee the finest linen, Weave for thee the richest
fabrics, Make for thee the softest raiment, Make thy weaver's loom as
merry As the cuckoo of the forest; Make the shuttle glide in beauty
Like the ermine of the woodlands; Make the spindle twirl as deftly As
the squirrel spins the acorn; Village-maidens will not slumber While
thy young bride's loom is humming, While she plies the graceful
shuttle.

Two or three nights after the arrival of the second package of
letters, the Major had passed the evening pretty cheerfully at Lady
O'Dowd's house, where Glorvina thought that he listened with rather
more attention than usual to the Meeting of the Wathers, the Minsthrel
Boy, and one or two other specimens of song with which she favoured
him (the truth is, he was no more listening to Glorvina than to the
howling of the jackals in the moonlight outside, and the delusion was
hers as usual), and having played his game at chess with her (cribbage
with the surgeon was Lady O'Dowd's favourite evening pastime), Major
Dobbin took leave of the Colonel's family at his usual hour and
retired to his own house.

Spake again the gray-haired mother To her wailing daughter Aino:
"Cease thy sorrow, foolish maiden, By thy tears thou art ungrateful,
Reason none for thy repining, Not the slightest cause for weeping;
Everywhere the silver sunshine Falls as bright on other households;
Not alone the moonlight glimmers Through thy father's open windows, On
the work-bench of thy brother; Flowers bloom in every meadow, Berries
grow on every mountain; Thou canst go thyself and find them, All the
day long go and find them; Not alone thy brother's meadows Grow the
beauteous vines and flowers; Not alone thy father's mountains Yield
the ripe, nutritious berries; Flowers bloom in other meadows, Berries
grow on other mountains, There as here, my lovely Aino.

Deck thy brow with silken ribbon, Trim with gold thy throbbing
temples, And thy neck with pearly necklace, Hang the gold-cross on thy
bosom, Robe thyself in pure, white linen Spun from flax of finest
fiber; Wear withal the richest short-frock, Fasten it with golden
girdle; On thy feet, put silken stockings, With the shoes of finest
leather; Deck thy hair with golden braidlets, Bind it well with
threads of silver; Trim with rings thy fairy fingers, And thy hands
with dainty ruffles; Come bedecked then to thy chamber, Thus return to
this thy household, To the greeting of thy kindred, To the joy of all
that know thee, Flushed thy cheeks as ruddy berries, Coming as thy
father's sunbeam, Walking beautiful and queenly, Far more beautiful
than moonlight.

Albert had already made seven or eight similar excursions to the
Colosseum, while his less favored companion trod for the first time in
his life the classic ground forming the monument of Flavius Vespasian;
and, to his credit be it spoken, his mind, even amid the glib
loquacity of the guides, was duly and deeply touched with awe and
enthusiastic admiration of all he saw; and certainly no adequate
notion of these stupendous ruins can be formed save by such as have
visited them, and more especially by moonlight, at which time the vast
proportions of the building appear twice as large when viewed by the
mysterious beams of a southern moonlit sky, whose rays are
sufficiently clear and vivid to light the horizon with a glow equal to
the soft twilight of an eastern clime.

And "O my brother Percivale," she said, "Sweet brother, I have seen
the Holy Grail: For, waked at dead of night, I heard a sound As of a
silver horn from o'er the hills Blown, and I thought, 'It is not
Arthur's use To hunt by moonlight;' and the slender sound As from a
distance beyond distance grew Coming upon me--O never harp nor horn,
Nor aught we blow with breath, or touch with hand, Was like that music
as it came; and then Streamed through my cell a cold and silver beam,
And down the long beam stole the Holy Grail, Rose-red with beatings in
it, as if alive, Till all the white walls of my cell were dyed With
rosy colours leaping on the wall; And then the music faded, and the
Grail Past, and the beam decayed, and from the walls The rosy
quiverings died into the night.

Thou, thou, Lysander, thou hast given her rhymes, And interchang'd
love-tokens with my child: Thou hast by moonlight at her window sung,
With feigning voice, verses of feigning love; And stol'n the
impression of her fantasy With bracelets of thy hair, rings, gawds,
conceits, Knacks, trifles, nosegays, sweetmeats,--messengers Of strong
prevailment in unharden'd youth;-- With cunning hast thou filch'd my
daughter's heart; Turned her obedience, which is due to me, To
stubborn harshness.--And, my gracious duke, Be it so she will not here
before your grace Consent to marry with Demetrius, I beg the ancient
privilege of Athens,-- As she is mine I may dispose of her: Which
shall be either to this gentleman Or to her death; according to our
law Immediately provided in that case.

Return from Wallanchoon pass -- Procure a bazaar at village -- Dance
of Lamas -- Blacking face, Tibetan custom of -- Temple and convent --
Leave for Kanglachem pass -- Send part of party back to Dorjiling --
Yangma Guola -- Drunken Tibetans -- Guobah of Wallanchoon -- Camp at
foot of Great Moraine -- View from top -- Geological speculations --
Height of moraines -- Cross dry lake-bed -- Glaciers -- More moraines
-- Terraces -- Yangma temples -- Jos, books and furniture -- Peak of
Nango -- Lake -- Arrive at village -- Cultivation -- Scenery --
Potatos -- State of my provisions -- Pass through village -- Gigantic
boulders Terraces -- Wild sheep -- Lake-beds -- Sun's power -- Piles
of gravel and detritus -- Glaciers and moraines -- Pabuk, elevation of
-- Moonlight scene -- Return to Yangma -- Temperature, etc.

As water does a sponge, so the moonlight _255 Fills the void, hollow,
universal air-- What see you?--unpavilioned Heaven is fair, Whether
the moon, into her chamber gone, Leaves midnight to the golden stars,
or wan Climbs with diminished beams the azure steep; _260 Or whether
clouds sail o'er the inverse deep, Piloted by the many-wandering
blast, And the rare stars rush through them dim and fast:-- All this
is beautiful in every land.-- But what see you beside?--a shabby stand
_265 Of Hackney coaches--a brick house or wall Fencing some lonely
court, white with the scrawl Of our unhappy politics;--or worse-- A
wretched woman reeling by, whose curse Mixed with the watchman's,
partner of her trade, _270 You must accept in place of serenade-- Or
yellow-haired Pollonia murmuring To Henry, some unutterable thing.

Return from Wallanchoon pass -- Procure a bazaar at village -- Dance
of Lamas -- Blackening face, Tibetan custom of -- Temple and convent
-- Leave for Kanglachem pass -- Send part of party back to Dorjiling
-- Yangma Guola -- Drunken Tibetans -- Guobah of Wallanchoon -- Camp
at foot of Great Moraine -- View from top -- Geological speculations
-- Height of moraines -- Cross dry lake-bed -- Glaciers -- More
moraines -- Terraces -- Yangma temples -- Jos, books and furniture --
Peak of Nango -- Lake -- Arrive at village -- Cultivation -- Scenery
-- Potatos -- State of my provisions -- Pass through village --
Gigantic boulders -- Terraces -- Wild sheep -- Lake-beds -- Sun's
power -- Piles of gravel and detritus -- Glaciers and moraines --
Pabuk, elevation of -- Moonlight scene -- Return to Yangma --
Temperature, etc.

Return from Wallanchoon pass--Procure a bazaar at village--Dance of
Lamas--Blacking face, Tibetan custom of--Temple and convent-- Leave
for Kanglachem pass--Send part of party back to Dorjiling-- Yangma
Guola--Drunken Tibetans--Guobah of Wallanchoon--Camp at foot of Great
Moraine--View from top--Geological speculations-- Height of moraines--
Cross dry lake-bed--Glaciers--More moraines --Terraces--Yangma temples
--Jos, books and furniture--Peak of Nango--Lake--Arrive at village--
Cultivation--Scenery-- Potatos--State of my provisions--Pass through
village--Gigantic boulders Terraces--Wild sheep--Lake-beds--Sun's
power--Piles of gravel and detritus--Glaciers and moraines--Pabuk,
elevation of--Moonlight scene--Return to Yangma--Temperature, etc.--
Geological causes of phenomena in valley--Scenery of valley on
descent.

The dullest of folk cannot see this kind of thing hour after hour
through long days without noticing it; and Harvey, being anything but
dull, began to comprehend and enjoy the dry chorus of wave-tops
turning over with a sound of incessant CAPTAINS COURAGEOUS 113
tearing; the hurry of the winds working across open spaces and herding
the purple-blue cloud-shadows; the splendid upheaval of the red
sunrise; the folding and packing away of the morning mists, wall after
wall withdrawn across the white floors; the salty glare and blaze of
noon; the kiss of rain falling over thousands of dead, flat square
miles; the chilly blackening of everything at the day's end; and the
million wrinkles of the sea under the moonlight, when the jib-boom
solemnly poked at the low stars, and Harvey went down to get a
doughnut from the cook.

Return from Wallanchoon pass--Procure a bazaar at village--Dance of
Lamas--Blackening face, Tibetan custom of--Temple and convent --Leave
for Kanglachem pass--Send part of party back to Dorjiling --Yangma
Guola--Drunken Tibetans--Guobah of Wallanchoon--Camp at foot of Great
Moraine--View from top--Geological speculations --Height of moraines--
Cross dry lake-bed--Glaciers--More moraines--Terraces--Yangma temples
--Jos, books and furniture-- Peak of Nango--Lake--Arrive at village--
Cultivation--Scenery --Potatos--State of my provisions--Pass through
village-- Gigantic boulders--Terraces--Wild sheep--Lake-beds--Sun's
power--Piles of gravel and detritus--Glaciers and moraines-- Pabuk,
elevation of--Moonlight scene--Return to Yangma-- Temperature, etc.--
Geological causes of phenomena in valley-- Scenery of valley on
descent.

At noon home to dinner, and then to the Office again, where we met
about some business of D. Gawden's till candle-light; and then, as
late as it was, I down to Redriffe, and so walked by moonlight to
Deptford, where I have not been a great while, and my business I did
there was only to walk up and down above la casa of Bagwell, but could
not see her, it being my intent to have spent a little time con her,
she being newly come from her husband; but I did lose my labour, and
so walked back again, but with pleasure by the walk, and I had the
sport to see two boys swear, and stamp, and fret, for not being able
to get their horse over a stile and ditch, one of them swearing and
cursing most bitterly; and I would fain, in revenge, have persuaded
him to have drove his horse through the ditch, by which I believe he
would have stuck there.

Meanwhile _540 We two will rise, and sit, and walk together, Under the
roof of blue Ionian weather, And wander in the meadows, or ascend The
mossy mountains, where the blue heavens bend With lightest winds, to
touch their paramour; _545 Or linger, where the pebble-paven shore,
Under the quick, faint kisses of the sea Trembles and sparkles as with
ecstasy,-- Possessing and possessed by all that is Within that calm
circumference of bliss, _550 And by each other, till to love and live
Be one:--or, at the noontide hour, arrive Where some old cavern hoar
seems yet to keep The moonlight of the expired night asleep, Through
which the awakened day can never peep; _555 A veil for our seclusion,
close as night's, Where secure sleep may kill thine innocent lights:
Sleep, the fresh dew of languid love, the rain Whose drops quench
kisses till they burn again.

And the moonlight came into Maisie's soul, so that she, usually
reserved, chattered of herself and of the things she took interest in,
--of Kami, wisest of teachers, and of the girls in the studio,--of the
Poles, who will kill themselves with overwork if they are not checked;
of the French, who talk at great length of much more than they will
ever accomplish; of the slovenly English, who toil hopelessly and
cannot understand that inclination does not imply power; of the
Americans, whose rasping voices in the hush of a hot afternoon strain
tense-drawn nerves to breaking-point, and whose suppers lead to
indigestion; of tempestuous Russians, neither to hold nor to bind, who
tell the girls ghost-stories till the girls shriek; of stolid Germans,
who come to learn one thing, and, having mastered that much, stolidly
go away and copy pictures for evermore.

Like the winds the steed flies onward, Like a lightning flash, the
racer Makes the snow-sledge creak and rattle, Makes the highway
quickly vanish, Dashes on through fen and forest, Over hills and
through the valleys, Over marshes, over mountains, Over fertile plains
and meadows; Journeys one day, then a second, So a third from morn
till evening, Till the third day evening brings him To the endless
bridge of Osmo, To the Osmo-fields and pastures, To the plains of
Kalevala; When the hero spake as follows: "May the wolves devour the
dreamer, Eat the Laplander for dinner, May disease destroy the
braggart, Him who said that I should never See again my much-loved
home-land, Nevermore behold my kindred, Never during all my life-time,
Never while the sunshine brightens, Never while the moonlight glimmers
On the meadows of Wainola, On the plains of Kalevala.

After a turn or two with my cozen, I away with Sir W. Warren, who met
me here by my desire, and to Exeter House, and there to counsel, to
Sir William Turner, about the business of my bargain with my Lady
Batten; and he do give me good advice, and that I am safe, but that
there is a great many pretty considerations in it that makes it
necessary for me to be silent yet for a while till we see whether the
ship be safe or no; for she is drove to the coast of Holland, where
she now is in the Texell, so that it is not prudence for me yet to
resolve whether I will stand by the bargain or no, and so home, and
Sir W. Warren and I walked upon Tower Hill by moonlight a great while,
consulting business of the office and our present condition, which is
but bad, it being most likely that the Parliament will change all
hands, and so let them, so I may keep but what I have.

Now, in order to form an idea of the scene which is to follow, let the
reader picture to himself in his own mind, a cold night, the solitudes
of the Salpetriere covered with snow and white as winding-sheets in
the moonlight, the taper-like lights of the street lanterns which
shone redly here and there along those tragic boulevards, and the long
rows of black elms, not a passer-by for perhaps a quarter of a league
around, the Gorbeau hovel, at its highest pitch of silence, of horror,
and of darkness; in that building, in the midst of those solitudes, in
the midst of that darkness, the vast Jondrette garret lighted by a
single candle, and in that den two men seated at a table, M. Leblanc
tranquil, Jondrette smiling and alarming, the Jondrette woman, the
female wolf, in one corner, and, behind the partition, Marius,
invisible, erect, not losing a word, not missing a single movement,
his eye on the watch, and pistol in hand.

Man, where the gloom of the long polar night _145 Lowers o'er the
snow-clad rocks and frozen soil, Where scarce the hardiest herb that
braves the frost Basks in the moonlight's ineffectual glow, Shrank
with the plants, and darkened with the night; His chilled and narrow
energies, his heart, _150 Insensible to courage, truth, or love, His
stunted stature and imbecile frame, Marked him for some abortion of
the earth, Fit compeer of the bears that roamed around, Whose habits
and enjoyments were his own: _155 His life a feverish dream of
stagnant woe, Whose meagre wants, but scantily fulfilled, Apprised him
ever of the joyless length Which his short being's wretchedness had
reached; His death a pang which famine, cold and toil _160 Long on the
mind, whilst yet the vital spark Clung to the body stubbornly, had
brought: All was inflicted here that Earth's revenge Could wreak on
the infringers of her law; One curse alone was spared--the name of
God.

XVIII The Widow's Persecution XIX Barchester by Moonlight XX Mr Arabin
XXI St Ewold's Parsonage XXII The Thornes of Ullathorne XXIII Mr
Arabin reads himself in at St Ewold's XXIV Mr Slope manages matters
very well at Puddingdale XXV Fourteen Arguments in favour of Mr
Quiverful's Claims XXVI Mrs Proudie wrestles and gets a Fall XXVII A
Love Scene XXVIII Mrs Bold is entertained by Dr and Mrs Grantly at
Plumstead XXIX A serious Interview XXX Another Love Scene XXXI The
Bishop's Library XXXII A New Candidate for Ecclesiastical Honours
XXXIII Mrs Proudie Victrix XXXIV Oxford--The Master and Tutor of
Lazarus XXXV Miss Thorne's Fete Champetre XXXVI Ullathorne Sports--Act
I XXXVII The Signora Neroni, the Countess De Courcy, and Mrs Proudie
meet each other at Ullathorne XXXVIII The Bishop sits down to
Breakfast and the Dean dies XXXIX The Lookalofts and the Greenacres XL
Ullathorne Sports--Act II XLI Mrs Bold confides her Sorrow to her
Friend Miss Stanhope XLII Ullathorne Sports--Act III XLIII Mrs and Mrs
Quiverful are made happy.

Boat voyage to Silhet--River--Palms--Teelas--Botany--Fish weirs--
Forests of Cachar--Sandal-wood, etc.--Porpoises-- Alligators--Silchar
--Tigers--Rice crops--Cookies-- Munniporees--Hockey--Varnish--Dance--
Nagas--Excursion to Munnipore frontier--Elephant bogged--Bamboos--
_Cardiopteris_-- Climate, etc., of Cachar--Mosquitos--Fall of banks--
Silhet-- Oaks--_Stylidium_--Tree-ferns--Chattuc--Megna--Meteorology
--Palms--Noacolly--Salt-smuggling--Delta of Ganges and Megna
--Westward progress of Megna--Peat--Tide--Waves--Earthquakes
--Dangerous navigation--Moonlight scenes--Mud island-- Chittagong--Mug
tribes--Views--Trees--Churs--Flagstaff hill--Coffee--Pepper--Tea, etc.
--Excursions from Chittagong --_Dipterocarpi_ or Gurjun oil trees--
Earthquake--Birds--Papaw --Bleeding of stems--Poppy and Sun fields--
Seetakoond-- Bungalow and hill--Perpetual flame--_Falconeria--Cycas_--
Climate--Leave for Calcutta--Hattiah island--Plants-- Sunderbunds--
Steamer--Tides--_Nipa fruticans_--Fishing-- Otters--Crocodiles--
_Phoenix paludosa_--Departure from India.

Best voyage to Silhet--River--Palms--Teelas--Botany--Fish weirs--
Forests of Cachar--Sandal-wood, etc.--Porpoises-- Alligators--Silchar
--Tigers--Rice crops--Cookies-- Munniporees--Hockey--Varnish--Dance--
Nagas--Excursion to Munnipore frontier--Elephant bogged--Bamboos--
_Cardiopteris_-- Climate, etc., of Cachar--Mosquitos--Fall of banks--
Silhet-- Oaks--_Stylidium_--Tree-ferns--Chattuc--Megna--Meteorology
--Palms--Noa-colly--Salt-smuggling--Delta of Ganges and Megna
--Westward progress of Megna--Peat--Tide--Waves--Earthquakes
--Dangerous navigation--Moonlight scenes--Mud island-- Chittagong--Mug
tribes--Views--Trees--Churs--Flagstaff hill --Coffee--Pepper--Tea,
etc.--Excursions from Chittagong-- _Dipterocarpi_ or Gurjun oil trees
--Earthquake--Birds--Papaw-- Bleeding of stems--Poppy and Sun fields
----Seetakoond-- Bungalow and hill--Perpetual flame--_Falconeria--
Cycas_-- Climate--Leave for Calcutta--Hattiah island--Plants--
Sunderbunds--Steamer--Tides--_Nipa fruticans_--Fishing-- Otters--
Crocodiles--_Phoenix paludosa_--Departure from India.

Then the pied wind-flowers and the tulip tall, And narcissi, the
fairest among them all, Who gaze on their eyes in the stream's recess,
Till they die of their own dear loveliness; _20 And the Naiad-like
lily of the vale, Whom youth makes so fair and passion so pale That
the light of its tremulous bells is seen Through their pavilions of
tender green; And the hyacinth purple, and white, and blue, _25 Which
flung from its bells a sweet peal anew Of music so delicate, soft, and
intense, It was felt like an odour within the sense; And the rose like
a nymph to the bath addressed, Which unveiled the depth of her glowing
breast, _30 Till, fold after fold, to the fainting air The soul of her
beauty and love lay bare: And the wand-like lily, which lifted up, As
a Maenad, its moonlight-coloured cup, Till the fiery star, which is
its eye, Gazed through clear dew on the tender sky; _35 And the
jessamine faint, and the sweet tuberose, The sweetest flower for scent
that blows; And all rare blossoms from every clime Grew in that garden
in perfect prime.

That that morning she had three as fair, tall sons beside her as one
could find in all Nottinghamshire, but that they were now taken from
her, and were like to be hanged straightway; that, want having come
upon them, her eldest boy had gone out, the night before, into the
forest, and had slain a hind in the moonlight; that the King's rangers
had followed the blood upon the grass until they had come to her
cottage, and had there found the deer's meat in the cupboard; that, as
neither of the younger sons would betray their brother, the foresters
had taken all three away, in spite of the oldest saying that he alone
had slain the deer; that, as they went, she had heard the rangers
talking among themselves, saying that the Sheriff had sworn that he
would put a check upon the great slaughter of deer that had been going
on of late by hanging the very first rogue caught thereat upon the
nearest tree, and that they would take the three youths to the King's
Head Inn, near Nottingham Town, where the Sheriff was abiding that
day, there to await the return of a certain fellow he had sent into
Sherwood to seek for Robin Hood.

And my father and I admitted to all the lands; he for life, and I for
myself and my heirs in reversion, and then did surrender according to
bargain to Prior, Greene, and Shepheard the three cottages with their
appurtenances that they have bought of us, and that being done and
taken leave of the steward, I did with most compleat joy of mind go
from the Court with my father home, and in a quarter of an hour did
get on horseback, with my brother Tom, Cooke, and Will, all mounted,
and without eating or drinking, take leave of father, mother, Pall, to
whom I did give 10s., but have shown no kindness since I come, for I
find her so very ill-natured that I cannot love her, and she so cruel
a hypocrite that she can cry when she pleases, and John and I away,
calling in at Hinchingbroke, and taking leave in three words of my
Lady, and the young ladies; and so by moonlight most bravely all the
way to Cambridge, with great pleasure, whither we come at about nine
o'clock, and took up at the Bear, but the house being full of guests
we had very ill lodging, which troubled me, but had a supper, and my
mind at good ease, and so to bed.

A woodman whose rough heart was out of tune (I think such hearts yet
never came to good) Hated to hear, under the stars or moon, One
nightingale in an interfluous wood Satiate the hungry dark with
melody;-- _5 And as a vale is watered by a flood, Or as the moonlight
fills the open sky Struggling with darkness--as a tuberose Peoples
some Indian dell with scents which lie Like clouds above the flower
from which they rose, _10 The singing of that happy nightingale In
this sweet forest, from the golden close Of evening till the star of
dawn may fail, Was interfused upon the silentness; The folded roses
and the violets pale _15 Heard her within their slumbers, the abyss Of
heaven with all its planets; the dull ear Of the night-cradled earth;
the loneliness Of the circumfluous waters,--every sphere And every
flower and beam and cloud and wave, _20 And every wind of the mute
atmosphere, And every beast stretched in its rugged cave, And every
bird lulled on its mossy bough, And every silver moth fresh from the
grave Which is its cradle--ever from below _25 Aspiring like one who
loves too fair, too far, To be consumed within the purest glow Of one
serene and unapproached star, As if it were a lamp of earthly light,
Unconscious, as some human lovers are, _30 Itself how low, how high
beyond all height The heaven where it would perish!--and every form
That worshipped in the temple of the night Was awed into delight, and
by the charm Girt as with an interminable zone, _35 Whilst that sweet
bird, whose music was a storm Of sound, shook forth the dull oblivion
Out of their dreams; harmony became love In every soul but one.

From his girdle hung a row of seastones which jangled at every
movement of his portentous frame and on these were graven with rude
yet striking art the tribal images of many Irish heroes and heroines
of antiquity, Cuchulin, Conn of hundred battles, Niall of nine
hostages, Brian of Kincora, the ardri Malachi, Art MacMurragh, Shane
O'Neill, Father John Murphy, Owen Roe, Patrick Sarsfield, Red Hugh
O'Donnell, Red Jim MacDermott, Soggarth Eoghan O'Growney, Michael
Dwyer, Francy Higgins, Henry Joy M'Cracken, Goliath, Horace Wheatley,
Thomas Conneff, Peg Woffington, the Village Blacksmith, Captain
Moonlight, Captain Boycott, Dante Alighieri, Christopher Columbus, S.
Fursa, S. Brendan, Marshal MacMahon, Charlemagne, Theobald Wolfe Tone,
the Mother of the Maccabees, the Last of the Mohicans, the Rose of
Castile, the Man for Galway, The Man that Broke the Bank at Monte
Carlo, The Man in the Gap, The Woman Who Didn't, Benjamin Franklin,
Napoleon Bonaparte, John L. Sullivan, Cleopatra, Savourneen Deelish,
Julius Caesar, Paracelsus, sir Thomas Lipton, William Tell,
Michelangelo Hayes, Muhammad, the Bride of Lammermoor, Peter the
Hermit, Peter the Packer, Dark Rosaleen, Patrick W. Shakespeare, Brian
Confucius, Murtagh Gutenberg, Patricio Velasquez, Captain Nemo,
Tristan and Isolde, the first Prince of Wales, Thomas Cook and Son,
the Bold Soldier Boy, Arrah na Pogue, Dick Turpin, Ludwig Beethoven,
the Colleen Bawn, Waddler Healy, Angus the Culdee, Dolly Mount, Sidney
Parade, Ben Howth, Valentine Greatrakes, Adam and Eve, Arthur
Wellesley, Boss Croker, Herodotus, Jack the Giantkiller, Gautama
Buddha, Lady Godiva, The Lily of Killarney, Balor of the Evil Eye, the
Queen of Sheba, Acky Nagle, Joe Nagle, Alessandro Volta, Jeremiah
O'Donovan Rossa, Don Philip O'Sullivan Beare.

But I had seen first one and then another of the rooms in which I had
slept during my life, and in the end I would revisit them all in the
long course of my waking dream: rooms in winter, where on going to bed
I would at once bury my head in a nest, built up out of the most
diverse materials, the corner of my pillow, the top of my blankets, a
piece of a shawl, the edge of my bed, and a copy of an evening paper,
all of which things I would contrive, with the infinite patience of
birds building their nests, to cement into one whole; rooms where, in
a keen frost, I would feel the satisfaction of being shut in from the
outer world (like the sea-swallow which builds at the end of a dark
tunnel and is kept warm by the surrounding earth), and where, the fire
keeping in all night, I would sleep wrapped up, as it were, in a great
cloak of snug and savoury air, shot with the glow of the logs which
would break out again in flame: in a sort of alcove without walls, a
cave of warmth dug out of the heart of the room itself, a zone of heat
whose boundaries were constantly shifting and altering in temperature
as gusts of air ran across them to strike freshly upon my face, from
the corners of the room, or from parts near the window or far from the
fireplace which had therefore remained cold--or rooms in summer, where
I would delight to feel myself a part of the warm evening, where the
moonlight striking upon the half-opened shutters would throw down to
the foot of my bed its enchanted ladder; where I would fall asleep, as
it might be in the open air, like a titmouse which the breeze keeps
poised in the focus of a sunbeam--or sometimes the Louis XVI room, so
cheerful that I could never feel really unhappy, even on my first
night in it: that room where the slender columns which lightly
supported its ceiling would part, ever so gracefully, to indicate
where the bed was and to keep it separate; sometimes again that little
room with the high ceiling, hollowed in the form of a pyramid out of
two separate storeys, and partly walled with mahogany, in which from
the first moment my mind was drugged by the unfamiliar scent of
flowering grasses, convinced of the hostility of the violet curtains
and of the insolent indifference of a clock that chattered on at the
top of its voice as though I were not there; while a strange and
pitiless mirror with square feet, which stood across one corner of the
room, cleared for itself a site I had not looked to find tenanted in
the quiet surroundings of my normal field of vision: that room in
which my mind, forcing itself for hours on end to leave its moorings,
to elongate itself upwards so as to take on the exact shape of the
room, and to reach to the summit of that monstrous funnel, had passed
so many anxious nights while my body lay stretched out in bed, my eyes
staring upwards, my ears straining, my nostrils sniffing uneasily, and
my heart beating; until custom had changed the colour of the curtains,
made the clock keep quiet, brought an expression of pity to the cruel,
slanting face of the glass, disguised or even completely dispelled the
scent of flowering grasses, and distinctly reduced the apparent
loftiness of the ceiling.

Mulveys was the first when I was in bed that morning and Mrs Rubio
brought it in with the coffee she stood there standing when I asked
her to hand me and I pointing at them I couldnt think of the word a
hairpin to open it with ah horquilla disobliging old thing and it
staring her in the face with her switch of false hair on her and vain
about her appearance ugly as she was near 80 or a loo her face a mass
of wrinkles with all her religion domineering because she never could
get over the Atlantic fleet coming in half the ships of the world and
the Union Jack flying with all her carabineros because 4 drunken
English sailors took all the rock from them and because I didnt run
into mass often enough in Santa Maria to please her with her shawl up
on her except when there was a marriage on with all her miracles of
the saints and her black blessed virgin with the silver dress and the
sun dancing 3 times on Easter Sunday morning and when the priest was
going by with the bell bringing the vatican to the dying blessing
herself for his Majestad an admirer he signed it I near jumped out of
my skin I wanted to pick him up when I saw him following me along the
Calle Real in the shop window then he tipped me just in passing but I
never thought hed write making an appointment I had it inside my
petticoat bodice all day reading it up in every hole and corner while
father was up at the drill instructing to find out by the handwriting
or the language of stamps singing I remember shall I wear a white rose
and I wanted to put on the old stupid clock to near the time he was
the first man kissed me under the Moorish wall my sweetheart when a
boy it never entered my head what kissing meant till he put his tongue
in my mouth his mouth was sweetlike young I put my knee up to him a
few times to learn the way what did I tell him I was engaged for for
fun to the son of a Spanish nobleman named Don Miguel de la Flora and
he believed me that I was to be married to him in 3 years time theres
many a true word spoken in jest there is a flower that bloometh a few
things I told him true about myself just for him to be imagining the
Spanish girls he didnt like I suppose one of them wouldnt have him I
got him excited he crushed all the flowers on my bosom he brought me
he couldnt count the pesetas and the perragordas till I taught him
Cappoquin he came from he said on the black water but it was too short
then the day before he left May yes it was May when the infant king of
Spain was born Im always like that in the spring Id like a new fellow
every year up on the tiptop under the rockgun near OHaras tower I told
him it was struck by lightning and all about the old Barbary apes they
sent to Clapham without a tail careering all over the show on each
others back Mrs Rubio said she was a regular old rock scorpion robbing
the chickens out of Inces farm and throw stones at you if you went
anear he was looking at me I had that white blouse on open in the
front to encourage him as much as I could without too openly they were
just beginning to be plump I said I was tired we lay over the firtree
cove a wild place I suppose it must be the highest rock in existence
the galleries and casemates and those frightful rocks and Saint
Michaels cave with the icicles or whatever they call them hanging down
and ladders all the mud plotching my boots Im sure thats the way down
the monkeys go under the sea to Africa when they die the ships out far
like chips that was the Malta boat passing yes the sea and the sky you
could do what you liked lie there for ever he caressed them outside
they love doing that its the roundness there I was leaning over him
with my white ricestraw hat to take the newness out of it the left
side of my face the best my blouse open for his last day transparent
kind of shirt he had I could see his chest pink he wanted to touch
mine with his for a moment but I wouldnt lee him he was awfully put
out first for fear you never know consumption or leave me with a child
embarazada that old servant Ines told me that one drop even if it got
into you at all after I tried with the Banana but I was afraid it
might break and get lost up in me somewhere because they once took
something down out of a woman that was up there for years covered with
limesalts theyre all mad to get in there where they come out of youd
think they could never go far enough up and then theyre done with you
in a way till the next time yes because theres a wonderful feeling
there so tender all the time how did we finish it off yes O yes I
pulled him off into my handkerchief pretending not to be excited but I
opened my legs I wouldnt let him touch me inside my petticoat because
I had a skirt opening up the side I tormented the life out of him
first tickling him I loved rousing that dog in the hotel rrrsssstt
awokwokawok his eyes shut and a bird flying below us he was shy all
the same I liked him like that moaning I made him blush a little when
I got over him that way when I unbuttoned him and took his out and
drew back the skin it had a kind of eye in it theyre all Buttons men
down the middle on the wrong side of them Molly darling he called me
what was his name Jack Joe Harry Mulvey was it yes I think a
lieutenant he was rather fair he had a laughing kind of a voice so I
went round to the whatyoucallit everything was whatyoucallit moustache
had he he said hed come back Lord its just like yesterday to me and if
I was married hed do it to me and I promised him yes faithfully Id let
him block me now flying perhaps hes dead or killed or a captain or
admiral its nearly 20 years if I said firtree cove he would if he came
up behind me and put his hands over my eyes to guess who I might
recognise him hes young still about 40 perhaps hes married some girl
on the black water and is quite changed they all do they havent half
the character a woman has she little knows what I did with her beloved
husband before he ever dreamt of her in broad daylight too in the
sight of the whole world you might say they could have put an article
about it in the Chronicle I was a bit wild after when I blew out the
old bag the biscuits were in from Benady Bros and exploded it Lord
what a bang all the woodcocks and pigeons screaming coming back the
same way that we went over middle hill round by the old guardhouse and
the jews burialplace pretending to read out the Hebrew on them I
wanted to fire his pistol he said he hadnt one he didnt know what to
make of me with his peak cap on that he always wore crooked as often
as I settled it straight H M S Calypso swinging my hat that old Bishop
that spoke off the altar his long preach about womans higher functions
about girls now riding the bicycle and wearing peak caps and the new
woman bloomers God send him sense and me more money I suppose theyre
called after him I never thought that would be my name Bloom when I
used to write it in print to see how it looked on a visiting card or
practising for the butcher and oblige M Bloom youre looking blooming
Josie used to say after I married him well its better than Breen or
Briggs does brig or those awful names with bottom in them Mrs
Ramsbottom or some other kind of a bottom Mulvey I wouldnt go mad
about either or suppose I divorced him Mrs Boylan my mother whoever
she was might have given me a nicer name the Lord knows after the
lovely one she had Lunita Laredo the fun we had running along Williss
road to Europa point twisting in and out all round the other side of
Jersey they were shaking and dancing about in my blouse like Millys
little ones now when she runs up the stairs I loved looking down at
them I was jumping up at the pepper trees and the white poplars
pulling the leaves off and throwing them at him he went to India he
was to write the voyages those men have to make to the ends of the
world and back its the least they might get a squeeze or two at a
woman while they can going out to be drowned or blown up somewhere I
went up Windmill hill to the flats that Sunday morning with captain
Rubios that was dead spyglass like the sentry had he said hed have one
or two from on board I wore that frock from the B Marche paris and the
coral necklace the straits shining I could see over to Morocco almost
the bay of Tangier white and the Atlas mountain with snow on it and
the straits like a river so clear Harry Molly darling I was thinking
of him on the sea all the time after at mass when my petticoat began
to slip down at the elevation weeks and weeks I kept the handkerchief
under my pillow for the smell of him there was no decent perfume to be
got in that Gibraltar only that cheap peau despagne that faded and
left a stink on you more than anything else I wanted to give him a
memento he gave me that clumsy Claddagh ring for luck that I gave
Gardner going to south Africa where those Boers killed him with their
war and fever but they were well beaten all the same as if it brought
its bad luck with it like an opal or pearl still it must have been
pure 18 carrot gold because it was very heavy but what could you get
in a place like that the sandfrog shower from Africa and that derelict
ship that came up to the harbour Marie the Marie whatyoucallit no he
hadnt a moustache that was Gardner yes I can see his face cleanshaven
Frseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeefrong that train again weeping tone once in the
dear deaead days beyondre call close my eyes breath my lips forward
kiss sad look eyes open piano ere oer the world the mists began I hate
that istsbeg comes loves sweet sooooooooooong Ill let that out full
when I get in front of the footlights again Kathleen Kearney and her
lot of squealers Miss This Miss That Miss Theother lot of sparrowfarts
skitting around talking about politics they know as much about as my
backside anything in the world to make themselves someway interesting
Irish homemade beauties soldiers daughter am I ay and whose are you
bootmakers and publicans I beg your pardon coach I thought you were a
wheelbarrow theyd die down dead off their feet if ever they got a
chance of walking down the Alameda on an officers arm like me on the
bandnight my eyes flash my bust that they havent passion God help
their poor head I knew more about men and life when I was I S than
theyll all know at 50 they dont know how to sing a song like that
Gardner said no man could look at my mouth and teeth smiling like that
and not think of it I was afraid he mightnt like my accent first he so
English all father left me in spite of his stamps Ive my mothers eyes
and figure anyhow he always said theyre so snotty about themselves
some of those cads he wasnt a bit like that he was dead gone on my
lips let them get a husband first thats fit to be looked at and a
daughter like mine or see if they can excite a swell with money that
can pick and choose whoever he wants like Boylan to do it 4 or 5 times
locked in each others arms or the voice either I could have been a
prima donna only I married him comes looooves old deep down chin back
not too much make it double My Ladys Bower is too long for an encore
about the moated grange at twilight and vaunted rooms yes Ill sing
Winds that blow from the south that he gave after the choirstairs
performance Ill change that lace on my black dress to show off my bubs
and Ill yes by God Ill get that big fan mended make them burst with
envy my hole is itching me always when I think of him I feel I want to
I feel some wind in me better go easy not wake him have him at it
again slobbering after washing every bit of myself back belly and
sides if we had even a bath itself or my own room anyway I wish hed
sleep in some bed by himself with his cold feet on me give us room
even to let a fart God or do the least thing better yes hold them like
that a bit on my side piano quietly sweeeee theres that train far away
pianissimo eeeee one more song that was a relief wherever you be let
your wind go free who knows if that pork chop I took with my cup of
tea after was quite good with the heat I couldnt smell anything off it
Im sure that queerlooking man in the porkbutchers is a great rogue I
hope that lamp is not smoking fill my nose up with smuts better than
having him leaving the gas on all night I couldnt rest easy in my bed
in Gibraltar even getting up to see why am I so damned nervous about
that though I like it in the winter its more company O Lord it was
rotten cold too that winter when I was only about ten was I yes I had
the big doll with all the funny clothes dressing her up and undressing
that icy wind skeeting across from those mountains the something
Nevada sierra nevada standing at the fire with the little bit of a
short shift I had up to heat myself I loved dancing about in it then
make a race back into bed Im sure that fellow opposite used to be
there the whole time watching with the lights out in the summer and I
in my skin hopping around I used to love myself then stripped at the
washstand dabbing and creaming only when it came to the chamber
performance I put out the light too so then there were 2 of us goodbye
to my sleep for this night anyhow I hope hes not going to get in with
those medicals leading him astray to imagine hes young again coming in
at 4 in the morning it must be if not more still he had the manners
not to wake me what do they find to gabber about all night squandering
money and getting drunker and drunker couldnt they drink water then he
starts giving us his orders for eggs and tea and Findon haddy and hot
buttered toast I suppose well have him sitting up like the king of the
country pumping the wrong end of the spoon up and down in his egg
wherever he learned that from and I love to hear him falling up the
stairs of a morning with the cups rattling on the tray and then play
with the cat she rubs up against you for her own sake I wonder has she
fleas shes as bad as a woman always licking and lecking but I hate
their claws I wonder do they see anything that we cant staring like
that when she sits at the top of the stairs so long and listening as I
wait always what a robber too that lovely fresh place I bought I think
Ill get a bit of fish tomorrow or today is it Friday yes I will with
some blancmange with black currant jam like long ago not those 2 lb
pots of mixed plum and apple from the London and Newcastle Williams
and Woods goes twice as far only for the bones I hate those eels cod
yes Ill get a nice piece of cod Im always getting enough for 3
forgetting anyway Im sick of that everlasting butchers meat from
Buckleys loin chops and leg beef and rib steak and scrag of mutton and
calfs pluck the very name is enough or a picnic suppose we all gave
5/- each and or let him pay it and invite some other woman for him who
Mrs Fleming and drove out to the furry glen or the strawberry beds wed
have him examining all the horses toenails first like he does with the
letters no not with Boylan there yes with some cold veal and ham mixed
sandwiches there are little houses down at the bottom of the banks
there on purpose but its as hot as blazes he says not a bank holiday
anyhow I hate those ruck of Mary Ann coalboxes out for the day Whit
Monday is a cursed day too no wonder that bee bit him better the
seaside but Id never again in this life get into a boat with him after
him at Bray telling the boatman he knew how to row if anyone asked
could he ride the steeplechase for the gold cup hed say yes then it
came on to get rough the old thing crookeding about and the weight all
down my side telling me pull the right reins now pull the left and the
tide all swamping in floods in through the bottom and his oar slipping
out of the stirrup its a mercy we werent all drowned he can swim of
course me no theres no danger whatsoever keep yourself calm in his
flannel trousers Id like to have tattered them down off him before all
the people and give him what that one calls flagellate till he was
black and blue do him all the good in the world only for that
longnosed chap I dont know who he is with that other beauty Burke out
of the City Arms hotel was there spying around as usual on the slip
always where he wasnt wanted if there was a row on youd vomit a better
face there was no love lost between us thats 1 consolation I wonder
what kind is that book he brought me Sweets of Sin by a gentleman of
fashion some other Mr de Kock I suppose the people gave him that
nickname going about with his tube from one woman to another I couldnt
even change my new white shoes all ruined with the saltwater and the
hat I had with that feather all blowy and tossed on me how annoying
and provoking because the smell of the sea excited me of course the
sardines and the bream in Catalan bay round the back of the rock they
were fine all silver in the fishermens baskets old Luigi near a
hundred they said came from Genoa and the tall old chap with the
earrings I dont like a man you have to climb up to to get at I suppose
theyre all dead and rotten long ago besides I dont like being alone in
this big barracks of a place at night I suppose Ill have to put up
with it I never brought a bit of salt in even when we moved in the
confusion musical academy he was going to make on the first floor
drawingroom with a brassplate or Blooms private hotel he suggested go
and ruin himself altogether the way his father did down in Ennis like
all the things he told father he was going to do and me but I saw
through him telling me all the lovely places we could go for the
honeymoon Venice by moonlight with the gondolas and the lake of Como
he had a picture cut out of some paper of and mandolines and lanterns
O how nice I said whatever I liked he was going to do immediately if
not sooner will you be my man will you carry my can he ought to get a
leather medal with a putty rim for all the plans he invents then
leaving us here all day youd never know what old beggar at the door
for a crust with his long story might be a tramp and put his foot in
the way to prevent me shutting it like that picture of that hardened
criminal he was called in Lloyds Weekly news 20 years in jail then he
comes out and murders an old woman for her money imagine his poor wife
or mother or whoever she is such a face youd run miles away from I
couldnt rest easy till I bolted all the doors and windows to make sure
but its worse again being locked up like in a prison or a madhouse
they ought to be all shot or the cat of nine tails a big brute like
that that would attack a poor old woman to murder her in her bed Id
cut them off him so I would not that hed be much use still better than
nothing the night I was sure I heard burglars in the kitchen and he
went down in his shirt with a candle and a poker as if he was looking
for a mouse as white as a sheet frightened out of his wits making as
much noise as he possibly could for the burglars benefit there isnt
much to steal indeed the Lord knows still its the feeling especially
now with Milly away such an idea for him to send the girl down there
to learn to take photographs on account of his grandfather instead of
sending her to Skerrys academy where shed have to learn not like me
getting all IS at school only hed do a thing like that all the same on
account of me and Boylan thats why he did it Im certain the way he
plots and plans everything out I couldnt turn round with her in the
place lately unless I bolted the door first gave me the fidgets coming
in without knocking first when I put the chair against the door just
as I was washing myself there below with the glove get on your nerves
then doing the loglady all day put her in a glasscase with two at a
time to look at her if he knew she broke off the hand off that little
gimcrack statue with her roughness and carelessness before she left
that I got that little Italian boy to mend so that you cant see the
join for 2 shillings wouldnt even teem the potatoes for you of course
shes right not to ruin her hands I noticed he was always talking to
her lately at the table explaining things in the paper and she
pretending to understand sly of course that comes from his side of the
house he cant say I pretend things can he Im too honest as a matter of
fact and helping her into her coat but if there was anything wrong
with her its me shed tell not him I suppose he thinks Im finished out
and laid on the shelf well Im not no nor anything like it well see
well see now shes well on for flirting too with Tom Devans two sons
imitating me whistling with those romps of Murray girls calling for
her can Milly come out please shes in great demand to pick what they
can out of her round in Nelson street riding Harry Devans bicycle at
night its as well he sent her where she is she was just getting out of
bounds wanting to go on the skatingrink and smoking their cigarettes
through their nose I smelt it off her dress when I was biting off the
thread of the button I sewed on to the bottom of her jacket she
couldnt hide much from me I tell you only I oughtnt to have stitched
it and it on her it brings a parting and the last plumpudding too
split in 2 halves see it comes out no matter what they say her tongue
is a bit too long for my taste your blouse is open too low she says to
me the pan calling the kettle blackbottom and I had to tell her not to
cock her legs up like that on show on the windowsill before all the
people passing they all look at her like me when I was her age of
course any old rag looks well on you then a great touchmenot too in
her own way at the Only Way in the Theatre royal take your foot away
out of that I hate people touching me afraid of her life Id crush her
skirt with the pleats a lot of that touching must go on in theatres in
the crush in the dark theyre always trying to wiggle up to you that
fellow in the pit at the Gaiety for Beerbohm Tree in Trilby the last
time Ill ever go there to be squashed like that for any Trilby or her
barebum every two minutes tipping me there and looking away hes a bit
daft I think I saw him after trying to get near two stylishdressed
ladies outside Switzers window at the same little game I recognised
him on the moment the face and everything but he didnt remember me yes
and she didnt even want me to kiss her at the Broadstone going away
well I hope shell get someone to dance attendance on her the way I did
when she was down with the mumps and her glands swollen wheres this
and wheres that of course she cant feel anything deep yet I never came
properly till I was what 22 or so it went into the wrong place always
only the usual girls nonsense and giggling that Conny Connolly writing
to her in white ink on black paper sealed with sealingwax though she
clapped when the curtain came down because he looked so handsome then
we had Martin Harvey for breakfast dinner and supper I thought to
myself afterwards it must be real love if a man gives up his life for
her that way for nothing I suppose there are a few men like that left
its hard to believe in it though unless it really happened to me the
majority of them with not a particle of love in their natures to find
two people like that nowadays full up of each other that would feel
the same way as you do theyre usually a bit foolish in the head his
father must have been a bit queer to go and poison himself after her
still poor old man I suppose he felt lost shes always making love to
my things too the few old rags I have wanting to put her hair up at I
S my powder too only ruin her skin on her shes time enough for that
all her life after of course shes restless knowing shes pretty with
her lips so red a pity they wont stay that way I was too but theres no
use going to the fair with the thing answering me like a fishwoman
when I asked to go for a half a stone of potatoes the day we met Mrs
Joe Gallaher at the trottingmatches and she pretended not to see us in
her trap with Friery the solicitor we werent grand enough till I gave
her 2 damn fine cracks across the ear for herself take that now for
answering me like that and that for your impudence she had me that
exasperated of course contradicting I was badtempered too because how
was it there was a weed in the tea or I didnt sleep the night before
cheese I ate was it and I told her over and over again not to leave
knives crossed like that because she has nobody to command her as she
said herself well if he doesnt correct her faith I will that was the
last time she turned on the teartap I was just like that myself they
darent order me about the place its his fault of course having the two
of us slaving here instead of getting in a woman long ago am I ever
going to have a proper servant again of course then shed see him
coming Id have to let her know or shed revenge it arent they a
nuisance that old Mrs Fleming you have to be walking round after her
putting the things into her hands sneezing and farting into the pots
well of course shes old she cant help it a good job I found that
rotten old smelly dishcloth that got lost behind the dresser I knew
there was something and opened the area window to let out the smell
bringing in his friends to entertain them like the night he walked
home with a dog if you please that might have been mad especially
Simon Dedalus son his father such a criticiser with his glasses up
with his tall hat on him at the cricket match and a great big hole in
his sock one thing laughing at the other and his son that got all
those prizes for whatever he won them in the intermediate imagine
climbing over the railings if anybody saw him that knew us I wonder he
didnt tear a big hole in his grand funeral trousers as if the one
nature gave wasnt enough for anybody hawking him down into the dirty
old kitchen now is he right in his head I ask pity it wasnt washing
day my old pair of drawers might have been hanging up too on the line
on exhibition for all hed ever care with the ironmould mark the stupid
old bundle burned on them he might think was something else and she
never even rendered down the fat I told her and now shes going such as
she was on account of her paralysed husband getting worse theres
always something wrong with them disease or they have to go under an
operation or if its not that its drink and he beats her Ill have to
hunt around again for someone every day I get up theres some new thing
on sweet God sweet God well when Im stretched out dead in my grave I
suppose 111 have some peace I want to get up a minute if Im let wait O
Jesus wait yes that thing has come on me yes now wouldnt that afflict
you of course all the poking and rooting and ploughing he had up in me
now what am I to do Friday Saturday Sunday wouldnt that pester the
soul out of a body unless he likes it some men do God knows theres
always something wrong with us 5 days every 3 or 4 weeks usual monthly
auction isnt it simply sickening that night it came on me like that
the one and only time we were in a box that Michael Gunn gave him to
see Mrs Kendal and her husband at the Gaiety something he did about
insurance for him in Drimmies I was fit to be tied though I wouldnt
give in with that gentleman of fashion staring down at me with his
glasses and him the other side of me talking about Spinoza and his
soul thats dead I suppose millions of years ago I smiled the best I
could all in a swamp leaning forward as if I was interested having to
sit it out then to the last tag I wont forget that wife of Scarli in a
hurry supposed to be a fast play about adultery that idiot in the
gallery hissing the woman adulteress he shouted I suppose he went and
had a woman in the next lane running round all the back ways after to
make up for it I wish he had what I had then hed boo I bet the cat
itself is better off than us have we too much blood up in us or what O
patience above its pouring out of me like the sea anyhow he didnt make
me pregnant as big as he is I dont want to ruin the clean sheets I
just put on I suppose the clean linen I wore brought it on too damn it
damn it and they always want to see a stain on the bed to know youre a
virgin for them all thats troubling them theyre such fools too you
could be a widow or divorced 40 times over a daub of red ink would do
or blackberry juice no thats too purply O Jamesy let me up out of this
pooh sweets of sin whoever suggested that business for women what
between clothes and cooking and children this damned old bed too
jingling like the dickens I suppose they could hear us away over the
other side of the park till I suggested to put the quilt on the floor
with the pillow under my bottom I wonder is it nicer in the day I
think it is easy I think Ill cut all this hair off me there scalding
me I might look like a young girl wouldnt he get the great suckin the
next time he turned up my clothes on me Id give anything to see his
face wheres the chamber gone easy Ive a holy horror of its breaking
under me after that old commode I wonder was I too heavy sitting on
his knee I made him sit on the easychair purposely when I took off
only my blouse and skirt first in the other room he was so busy where
he oughtnt to be he never felt me I hope my breath was sweet after
those kissing comfits easy God I remember one time I could scout it
out straight whistling like a man almost easy O Lord how noisy I hope
theyre bubbles on it for a wad of money from some fellow 111 have to
perfume it in the morning dont forget I bet he never saw a better pair
of thighs than that look how white they are the smoothest place is
right there between this bit here how soft like a peach easy God I
wouldnt mind being a man and get up on a lovely woman O Lord what a
row youre making like the jersey lily easy easy O how the waters come
down at Lahore who knows is there anything the matter with my insides
or have I something growing in me getting that thing like that every
week when was it last I Whit Monday yes its only about 3 weeks I ought
to go to the doctor only it would be like before I married him when I
had that white thing coming from me and Floey made me go to that dry
old stick Dr Collins for womens diseases on Pembroke road your vagina
he called it I suppose thats how he got all the gilt mirrors and
carpets getting round those rich ones off Stephens green running up to
him for every little fiddlefaddle her vagina and her cochinchina
theyve money of course so theyre all right I wouldnt marry him not if
he was the last man in the world besides theres something queer about
their children always smelling around those filthy bitches all sides
asking me if what I did had an offensive odour what did he want me to
do but the one thing gold maybe what a question if I smathered it all
over his wrinkly old face for him with all my compriments I suppose
hed know then and could you pass it easily pass what I thought he was
talking about the rock of Gibraltar the way he put it thats a very
nice invention too by the way only I like letting myself down after in
the hole as far as I can squeeze and pull the chain then to flush it
nice cool pins and needles still theres something in it I suppose I
always used to know by Millys when she was a child whether she had
worms or not still all the same paying him for that how much is that
doctor one guinea please and asking me had I frequent omissions where
do those old fellows get all the words they have omissions with his
shortsighted eyes on me cocked sideways I wouldnt trust him too far to
give me chloroform or God knows what else still I liked him when he
sat down to write the thing out frowning so severe his nose
intelligent like that you be damned you lying strap O anything no
matter who except an idiot he was clever enough to spot that of course
that was all thinking of him and his mad crazy letters my Precious one
everything connected with your glorious Body everything underlined
that comes from it is a thing of beauty and of joy for ever something
he got out of some nonsensical book that he had me always at myself 4
and 5 times a day sometimes and I said I hadnt are you sure O yes I
said I am quite sure in a way that shut him up I knew what was coming
next only natural weakness it was he excited me I dont know how the
first night ever we met when I was living in Rehoboth terrace we stood
staring at one another for about lo minutes as if we met somewhere I
suppose on account of my being jewess looking after my mother he used
to amuse me the things he said with the half sloothering smile on him
and all the Doyles said he was going to stand for a member of
Parliament O wasnt I the born fool to believe all his blather about
home rule and the land league sending me that long strool of a song
out of the Huguenots to sing in French to be more classy O beau pays
de la Touraine that I never even sang once explaining and rigmaroling
about religion and persecution he wont let you enjoy anything
naturally then might he as a great favour the very 1st opportunity he
got a chance in Brighton square running into my bedroom pretending the
ink got on his hands to wash it off with the Albion milk and sulphur
soap I used to use and the gelatine still round it O I laughed myself
sick at him that day I better not make an alnight sitting on this
affair they ought to make chambers a natural size so that a woman
could sit on it properly he kneels down to do it I suppose there isnt
in all creation another man with the habits he has look at the way hes
sleeping at the foot of the bed how can he without a hard bolster its
well he doesnt kick or he might knock out all my teeth breathing with
his hand on his nose like that Indian god he took me to show one wet
Sunday in the museum in Kildare street all yellow in a pinafore lying
on his side on his hand with his ten toes sticking out that he said
was a bigger religion than the jews and Our Lords both put together
all over Asia imitating him as hes always imitating everybody I
suppose he used to sleep at the foot of the bed too with his big
square feet up in his wifes mouth damn this stinking thing anyway
wheres this those napkins are ah yes I know I hope the old press
doesnt creak ah I knew it would hes sleeping hard had a good time
somewhere still she must have given him great value for his money of
course he has to pay for it from her O this nuisance of a thing I hope
theyll have something better for us in the other world tying ourselves
up God help us thats all right for tonight now the lumpy old jingly
bed always reminds me of old Cohen I suppose he scratched himself in
it often enough and he thinks father bought it from Lord Napier that I
used to admire when I was a little girl because I told him easy piano
O I like my bed God here we are as bad as ever after 16 years how many
houses were we in at all Raymond terrace and Ontario terrace and
Lombard street and Holles street and he goes about whistling every
time were on the run again his huguenots or the frogs march pretending
to help the men with our 4 sticks of furniture and then the City Arms
hotel worse and worse says Warden Daly that charming place on the
landing always somebody inside praying then leaving all their stinks
after them always know who was in there last every time were just
getting on right something happens or he puts his big foot in it Thoms
and Helys and Mr Cuffes and Drimmies either hes going to be run into
prison over his old lottery tickets that was to be all our salvations
or he goes and gives impudence well have him coming home with the sack
soon out of the Freeman too like the rest on account of those Sinner
Fein or the freemasons then well see if the little man he showed me
dribbling along in the wet all by himself round by Coadys lane will
give him much consolation that he says is so capable and sincerely
Irish he is indeed judging by the sincerity of the trousers I saw on
him wait theres Georges church bells wait 3 quarters the hour l wait 2
oclock well thats a nice hour of the night for him to be coming home
at to anybody climbing down into the area if anybody saw him Ill knock
him off that little habit tomorrow first Ill look at his shirt to see
or Ill see if he has that French letter still in his pocketbook I
suppose he thinks I dont know deceitful men all their 20 pockets arent
enough for their lies then why should we tell them even if its the
truth they dont believe you then tucked up in bed like those babies in
the Aristocrats Masterpiece he brought me another time as if we hadnt
enough of that in real life without some old Aristocrat or whatever
his name is disgusting you more with those rotten pictures children
with two heads and no legs thats the kind of villainy theyre always
dreaming about with not another thing in their empty heads they ought
to get slow poison the half of them then tea and toast for him
buttered on both sides and newlaid eggs I suppose Im nothing any more
when I wouldnt let him lick me in Holles street one night man man
tyrant as ever for the one thing he slept on the floor half the night
naked the way the jews used when somebody dies belonged to them and
wouldnt eat any breakfast or speak a word wanting to be petted so I
thought I stood out enough for one time and let him he does it all
wrong too thinking only of his own pleasure his tongue is too flat or
I dont know what he forgets that wethen I dont Ill make him do it
again if he doesnt mind himself and lock him down to sleep in the
coalcellar with the blackbeetles I wonder was it her Josie off her
head with my castoffs hes such a born liar too no hed never have the
courage with a married woman thats why he wants me and Boylan though
as for her Denis as she calls him that forlornlooking spectacle you
couldnt call him a husband yes its some little bitch hes got in with
even when I was with him with Milly at the College races that
Hornblower with the childs bonnet on the top of his nob let us into by
the back way he was throwing his sheeps eyes at those two doing skirt
duty up and down I tried to wink at him first no use of course and
thats the way his money goes this is the fruits of Mr Paddy Dignam yes
they were all in great style at the grand funeral in the paper Boylan
brought in if they saw a real officers funeral thatd be something
reversed arms muffled drums the poor horse walking behind in black L
Boom and Tom Kernan that drunken little barrelly man that bit his
tongue off falling down the mens W C drunk in some place or other and
Martin Cunningham and the two Dedaluses and Fanny MCoys husband white
head of cabbage skinny thing with a turn in her eye trying to sing my
songs shed want to be born all over again and her old green dress with
the lowneck as she cant attract them any other way like dabbling on a
rainy day I see it all now plainly and they call that friendship
killing and then burying one another and they all with their wives and
families at home more especially Jack Power keeping that barmaid he
does of course his wife is always sick or going to be sick or just
getting better of it and hes a goodlooking man still though hes
getting a bit grey over the ears theyre a nice lot all of them well
theyre not going to get my husband again into their clutches if I can
help it making fun of him then behind his back I know well when he
goes on with his idiotics because he has sense enough not to squander
every penny piece he earns down their gullets and looks after his wife
and family goodfornothings poor Paddy Dignam all the same Im sorry in
a way for him what are his wife and 5 children going to do unless he
was insured comical little teetotum always stuck up in some pub corner
and her or her son waiting Bill Bailey wont you please come home her
widows weeds wont improve her appearance theyre awfully becoming
though if youre goodlooking what men wasnt he yes he was at the
Glencree dinner and Ben Dollard base barreltone the night he borrowed
the swallowtail to sing out of in Holles street squeezed and squashed
into them and grinning all over his big Dolly face like a wellwhipped
childs botty didnt he look a balmy ballocks sure enough that must have
been a spectacle on the stage imagine paying 5/- in the preserved
seats for that to see him trotting off in his trowlers and Simon
Dedalus too he was always turning up half screwed singing the second
verse first the old love is the new was one of his so sweetly sang the
maiden on the hawthorn bough he was always on for flirtyfying too when
I sang Maritana with him at Freddy Mayers private opera he had a
delicious glorious voice Phoebe dearest goodbye sweetheart SWEETheart
he always sang it not like Bartell Darcy sweet tart goodbye of course
he had the gift of the voice so there was no art in it all over you
like a warm showerbath O Maritana wildwood flower we sang splendidly
though it was a bit too high for my register even transposed and he
was married at the time to May Goulding but then hed say or do
something to knock the good out of it hes a widower now I wonder what
sort is his son he says hes an author and going to be a university
professor of Italian and Im to take lessons what is he driving at now
showing him my photo its not good of me I ought to have got it taken
in drapery that never looks out of fashion still I look young in it I
wonder he didnt make him a present of it altogether and me too after
all why not I saw him driving down to the Kingsbridge station with his
father and mother I was in mourning thats 11 years ago now yes hed be
11 though what was the good in going into mourning for what was
neither one thing nor the other the first cry was enough for me I
heard the deathwatch too ticking in the wall of course he insisted hed
go into mourning for the cat I suppose hes a man now by this time he
was an innocent boy then and a darling little fellow in his lord
Fauntleroy suit and curly hair like a prince on the stage when I saw
him at Mat Dillons he liked me too I remember they all do wait by God
yes wait yes hold on he was on the cards this morning when I laid out
the deck union with a young stranger neither dark nor fair you met
before I thought it meant him but hes no chicken nor a stranger either
besides my face was turned the other way what was the 7th card after
that the 10 of spades for a journey by land then there was a letter on
its way and scandals too the 3 queens and the 8 of diamonds for a rise
in society yes wait it all came out and 2 red 8s for new garments look
at that and didnt I dream something too yes there was something about
poetry in it I hope he hasnt long greasy hair hanging into his eyes or
standing up like a red Indian what do they go about like that for only
getting themselves and their poetry laughed at I always liked poetry
when I was a girl first I thought he was a poet like lord Byron and
not an ounce of it in his composition I thought he was quite different
I wonder is he too young hes about wait 88 I was married 88 Milly is
15 yesterday 89 what age was he then at Dillons 5 or 6 about 88 I
suppose hes 20 or more Im not too old for him if hes 23 or 24 I hope
hes not that stuckup university student sort no otherwise he wouldnt
go sitting down in the old kitchen with him taking Eppss cocoa and
talking of course he pretended to understand it all probably he told
him he was out of Trinity college hes very young to be a professor I
hope hes not a professor like Goodwin was he was a potent professor of
John Jameson they all write about some woman in their poetry well I
suppose he wont find many like me where softly sighs of love the light
guitar where poetry is in the air the blue sea and the moon shining so
beautifully coming back on the nightboat from Tarifa the lighthouse at
Europa point the guitar that fellow played was so expressive will I
ever go back there again all new faces two glancing eyes a lattice hid
Ill sing that for him theyre my eyes if hes anything of a poet two
eyes as darkly bright as loves own star arent those beautiful words as
loves young star itll be a change the Lord knows to have an
intelligent person to talk to about yourself not always listening to
him and Billy Prescotts ad and Keyess ad and Tom the Devils ad then if
anything goes wrong in their business we have to suffer Im sure hes
very distinguished Id like to meet a man like that God not those other
ruck besides hes young those fine young men I could see down in
Margate strand bathingplace from the side of the rock standing up in
the sun naked like a God or something and then plunging into the sea
with them why arent all men like that thered be some consolation for a
woman like that lovely little statue he bought I could look at him all
day long curly head and his shoulders his finger up for you to listen
theres real beauty and poetry for you I often felt I wanted to kiss
him all over also his lovely young cock there so simple I wouldnt mind
taking him in my mouth if nobody was looking as if it was asking you
to suck it so clean and white he looks with his boyish face I would
too in 1/2 a minute even if some of it went down what its only like
gruel or the dew theres no danger besides hed be so clean compared
with those pigs of men I suppose never dream of washing it from I
years end to the other the most of them only thats what gives the
women the moustaches Im sure itll be grand if I can only get in with a
handsome young poet at my age Ill throw them the 1st thing in the
morning till I see if the wishcard comes out or Ill try pairing the
lady herself and see if he comes out Ill read and study all I can find
or learn a bit off by heart if I knew who he likes so he wont think me
stupid if he thinks all women are the same and I can teach him the
other part Ill make him feel all over him till he half faints under me
then hell write about me lover and mistress publicly too with our 2
photographs in all the papers when he becomes famous O but then what
am I going to do about him though no thats no way for him has he no
manners nor no refinement nor no nothing in his nature slapping us
behind like that on my bottom because I didnt call him Hugh the
ignoramus that doesnt know poetry from a cabbage thats what you get
for not keeping them in their proper place pulling off his shoes and
trousers there on the chair before me so barefaced without even asking
permission and standing out that vulgar way in the half of a shirt
they wear to be admired like a priest or a butcher or those old
hypocrites in the time of Julius Caesar of course hes right enough in
his way to pass the time as a joke sure you might as well be in bed
with what with a lion God Im sure hed have something better to say for
himself an old Lion would O well I suppose its because they were so
plump and tempting in my short petticoat he couldnt resist they excite
myself sometimes its well for men all the amount of pleasure they get
off a womans body were so round and white for them always I wished I
was one myself for a change just to try with that thing they have
swelling up on you so hard and at the same time so soft when you touch
it my uncle John has a thing long I heard those cornerboys saying
passing the comer of Marrowbone lane my aunt Mary has a thing hairy
because it was dark and they knew a girl was passing it didnt make me
blush why should it either its only nature and he puts his thing long
into my aunt Marys hairy etcetera and turns out to be you put the
handle in a sweepingbrush men again all over they can pick and choose
what they please a married woman or a fast widow or a girl for their
different tastes like those houses round behind Irish street no but
were to be always chained up theyre not going to be chaining me up no
damn fear once I start I tell you for their stupid husbands jealousy
why cant we all remain friends over it instead of quarrelling her
husband found it out what they did together well naturally and if he
did can he undo it hes coronado anyway whatever he does and then he
going to the other mad extreme about the wife in Fair Tyrants of
course the man never even casts a 2nd thought on the husband or wife
either its the woman he wants and he gets her what else were we given
all those desires for Id like to know I cant help it if Im young still
can I its a wonder Im not an old shrivelled hag before my time living
with him so cold never embracing me except sometimes when hes asleep
the wrong end of me not knowing I suppose who he has any man thatd
kiss a womans bottom Id throw my hat at him after that hed kiss
anything unnatural where we havent I atom of any kind of expression in
us all of us the same 2 lumps of lard before ever Id do that to a man
pfooh the dirty brutes the mere thought is enough I kiss the feet of
you senorita theres some sense in that didnt he kiss our halldoor yes
he did what a madman nobody understands his cracked ideas but me still
of course a woman wants to be embraced 20 times a day almost to make
her look young no matter by who so long as to be in love or loved by
somebody if the fellow you want isnt there sometimes by the Lord God I
was thinking would I go around by the quays there some dark evening
where nobodyd know me and pick up a sailor off the sea thatd be hot on
for it and not care a pin whose I was only do it off up in a gate
somewhere or one of those wildlooking gipsies in Rathfarnham had their
camp pitched near the Bloomfield laundry to try and steal our things
if they could I only sent mine there a few times for the name model
laundry sending me back over and over some old ones odd stockings that
blackguardlooking fellow with the fine eyes peeling a switch attack me
in the dark and ride me up against the wall without a word or a
murderer anybody what they do themselves the fine gentlemen in their
silk hats that K C lives up somewhere this way coming out of Hardwicke
lane the night he gave us the fish supper on account of winning over
the boxing match of course it was for me he gave it I knew him by his
gaiters and the walk and when I turned round a minute after just to
see there was a woman after coming out of it too some filthy
prostitute then he goes home to his wife after that only I suppose the
half of those sailors are rotten again with disease O move over your
big carcass out of that for the love of Mike listen to him the winds
that waft my sighs to thee so well he may sleep and sigh the great
Suggester Don Poldo de la Flora if he knew how he came out on the
cards this morning hed have something to sigh for a dark man in some
perplexity between 2 7s too in prison for Lord knows what he does that
I dont know and Im to be slooching around down in the kitchen to get
his lordship his breakfast while hes rolled up like a mummy will I
indeed did you ever see me running Id just like to see myself at it
show them attention and they treat you like dirt I dont care what
anybody says itd be much better for the world to be governed by the
women in it you wouldnt see women going and killing one another and
slaughtering when do you ever see women rolling around drunk like they
do or gambling every penny they have and losing it on horses yes
because a woman whatever she does she knows where to stop sure they
wouldnt be in the world at all only for us they dont know what it is
to be a woman and a mother how could they where would they all of them
be if they hadnt all a mother to look after them what I never had
thats why I suppose hes running wild now out at night away from his
books and studies and not living at home on account of the usual rowy
house I suppose well its a poor case that those that have a fine son
like that theyre not satisfied and I none was he not able to make one
it wasnt my fault we came together when I was watching the two dogs up
in her behind in the middle of the naked street that disheartened me
altogether I suppose I oughtnt to have buried him in that little
woolly jacket I knitted crying as I was but give it to some poor child
but I knew well Id never have another our 1st death too it was we were
never the same since O Im not going to think myself into the glooms
about that any more I wonder why he wouldnt stay the night I felt all
the time it was somebody strange he brought in instead of roving
around the city meeting God knows who nightwalkers and pickpockets his
poor mother wouldnt like that if she was alive ruining himself for
life perhaps still its a lovely hour so silent I used to love coming
home after dances the air of the night they have friends they can talk
to weve none either he wants what he wont get or its some woman ready
to stick her knife in you I hate that in women no wonder they treat us
the way they do we are a dreadful lot of bitches I suppose its all the
troubles we have makes us so snappy Im not like that he could easy
have slept in there on the sofa in the other room I suppose he was as
shy as a boy he being so young hardly 20 of me in the next room hed
have heard me on the chamber arrah what harm Dedalus I wonder its like
those names in Gibraltar Delapaz Delagracia they had the devils queer
names there father Vilaplana of Santa Maria that gave me the rosary
Rosales y OReilly in the Calle las Siete Revueltas and Pisimbo and Mrs
Opisso in Governor street O what a name Id go and drown myself in the
first river if I had a name like her O my and all the bits of streets
Paradise ramp and Bedlam ramp and Rodgers ramp and Crutchetts ramp and
the devils gap steps well small blame to me if I am a harumscarum I
know I am a bit I declare to God I dont feel a day older than then I
wonder could I get my tongue round any of the Spanish como esta usted
muy bien gracias y usted see I havent forgotten it all I thought I had
only for the grammar a noun is the name of any person place or thing
pity I never tried to read that novel cantankerous Mrs Rubio lent me
by Valera with the questions in it all upside down the two ways I
always knew wed go away in the end I can tell him the Spanish and he
tell me the Italian then hell see Im not so ignorant what a pity he
didnt stay Im sure the poor fellow was dead tired and wanted a good
sleep badly I could have brought him in his breakfast in bed with a
bit of toast so long as I didnt do it on the knife for bad luck or if
the woman was going her rounds with the watercress and something nice
and tasty there are a few olives in the kitchen he might like I never
could bear the look of them in Abrines I could do the criada the room
looks all right since I changed it the other way you see something was
telling me all the time Id have to introduce myself not knowing me
from Adam very funny wouldnt it Im his wife or pretend we were in
Spain with him half awake without a Gods notion where he is dos huevos
estrellados senor Lord the cracked things come into my head sometimes
itd be great fun supposing he stayed with us why not theres the room
upstairs empty and Millys bed in the back room he could do his writing
and studies at the table in there for all the scribbling he does at it
and if he wants to read in bed in the morning like me as hes making
the breakfast for I he can make it for 2 Im sure Im not going to take
in lodgers off the street for him if he takes a gesabo of a house like
this Id love to have a long talk with an intelligent welleducated
person Id have to get a nice pair of red slippers like those Turks
with the fez used to sell or yellow and a nice semitransparent morning
gown that I badly want or a peachblossom dressing jacket like the one
long ago in Walpoles only 8/6 or 18/6 Ill just give him one more
chance Ill get up early in the morning Im sick of Cohens old bed in
any case I might go over to the markets to see all the vegetables and
cabbages and tomatoes and carrots and all kinds of splendid fruits all
coming in lovely and fresh who knows whod be the 1st man Id meet
theyre out looking for it in the morning Mamy Dillon used to say they
are and the night too that was her massgoing Id love a big juicy pear
now to melt in your mouth like when I used to be in the longing way
then Ill throw him up his eggs and tea in the moustachecup she gave
him to make his mouth bigger I suppose hed like my nice cream too I
know what Ill do Ill go about rather gay not too much singing a bit
now and then mi fa pieta Masetto then Ill start dressing myself to go
out presto non son piu forte Ill put on my best shift and drawers let
him have a good eyeful out of that to make his micky stand for him Ill
let him know if thats what he wanted that his wife is I s l o fucked
yes and damn well fucked too up to my neck nearly not by him 5 or 6
times handrunning theres the mark of his spunk on the clean sheet I
wouldnt bother to even iron it out that ought to satisfy him if you
dont believe me feel my belly unless I made him stand there and put
him into me Ive a mind to tell him every scrap and make him do it out
in front of me serve him right its all his own fault if I am an
adulteress as the thing in the gallery said O much about it if thats
all the harm ever we did in this vale of tears God knows its not much
doesnt everybody only they hide it I suppose thats what a woman is
supposed to be there for or He wouldnt have made us the way He did so
attractive to men then if he wants to kiss my bottom Ill drag open my
drawers and bulge it right out in his face as large as life he can
stick his tongue 7 miles up my hole as hes there my brown part then
Ill tell him I want LI or perhaps 30/- Ill tell him I want to buy
underclothes then if he gives me that well he wont be too bad I dont
want to soak it all out of him like other women do I could often have
written out a fine cheque for myself and write his name on it for a
couple of pounds a few times he forgot to lock it up besides he wont
spend it Ill let him do it off on me behind provided he doesnt smear
all my good drawers O I suppose that cant be helped Ill do the
indifferent l or 2 questions Ill know by the answers when hes like
that he cant keep a thing back I know every turn in him Ill tighten my
bottom well and let out a few smutty words smellrump or lick my shit
or the first mad thing comes into my head then Ill suggest about yes O
wait now sonny my turn is coming Ill be quite gay and friendly over it
O but I was forgetting this bloody pest of a thing pfooh you wouldnt
know which to laugh or cry were such a mixture of plum and apple no
Ill have to wear the old things so much the better itll be more
pointed hell never know whether he did it or not there thats good
enough for you any old thing at all then Ill wipe him off me just like
a business his omission then Ill go out Ill have him eying up at the
ceiling where is she gone now make him want me thats the only way a
quarter after what an unearthly hour I suppose theyre just getting up
in China now combing out their pigtails for the day well soon have the
nuns ringing the angelus theyve nobody coming in to spoil their sleep
except an odd priest or two for his night office or the alarmclock
next door at cockshout clattering the brains out of itself let me see
if I can doze off 1 2 3 4 5 what kind of flowers are those they
invented like the stars the wallpaper in Lombard street was much nicer
the apron he gave me was like that something only I only wore it twice
better lower this lamp and try again so as I can get up early Ill go
to Lambes there beside Findlaters and get them to send us some flowers
to put about the place in case he brings him home tomorrow today I
mean no no Fridays an unlucky day first I want to do the place up
someway the dust grows in it I think while Im asleep then we can have
music and cigarettes I can accompany him first I must clean the keys
of the piano with milk whatll I wear shall I wear a white rose or
those fairy cakes in Liptons I love the smell of a rich big shop at 7
1/2d a lb or the other ones with the cherries in them and the pinky
sugar 11d a couple of lbs of those a nice plant for the middle of the
table Id get that cheaper in wait wheres this I saw them not long ago
I love flowers Id love to have the whole place swimming in roses God
of heaven theres nothing like nature the wild mountains then the sea
and the waves rushing then the beautiful country with the fields of
oats and wheat and all kinds of things and all the fine cattle going
about that would do your heart good to see rivers and lakes and
flowers all sorts of shapes and smells and colours springing up even
out of the ditches primroses and violets nature it is as for them
saying theres no God I wouldnt give a snap of my two fingers for all
their learning why dont they go and create something I often asked him
atheists or whatever they call themselves go and wash the cobbles off
themselves first then they go howling for the priest and they dying
and why why because theyre afraid of hell on account of their bad
conscience ah yes I know them well who was the first person in the
universe before there was anybody that made it all who ah that they
dont know neither do I so there you are they might as well try to stop
the sun from rising tomorrow the sun shines for you he said the day we
were lying among the rhododendrons on Howth head in the grey tweed
suit and his straw hat the day I got him to propose to me yes first I
gave him the bit of seedcake out of my mouth and it was leapyear like
now yes 16 years ago my God after that long kiss I near lost my breath
yes he said I was a flower of the mountain yes so we are flowers all a
womans body yes that was one true thing he said in his life and the
sun shines for you today yes that was why I liked him because I saw he
understood or felt what a woman is and I knew I could always get round
him and I gave him all the pleasure I could leading him on till he
asked me to say yes and I wouldnt answer first only looked out over
the sea and the sky I was thinking of so many things he didnt know of
Mulvey and Mr Stanhope and Hester and father and old captain Groves
and the sailors playing all birds fly and I say stoop and washing up
dishes they called it on the pier and the sentry in front of the
governors house with the thing round his white helmet poor devil half
roasted and the Spanish girls laughing in their shawls and their tall
combs and the auctions in the morning the Greeks and the jews and the
Arabs and the devil knows who else from all the ends of Europe and
Duke street and the fowl market all clucking outside Larby Sharons and
the poor donkeys slipping half asleep and the vague fellows in the
cloaks asleep in the shade on the steps and the big wheels of the
carts of the bulls and the old castle thousands of years old yes and
those handsome Moors all in white and turbans like kings asking you to
sit down in their little bit of a shop and Ronda with the old windows
of the posadas 2 glancing eyes a lattice hid for her lover to kiss the
iron and the wineshops half open at night and the castanets and the
night we missed the boat at Algeciras the watchman going about serene
with his lamp and O that awful deepdown torrent O and the sea the sea
crimson sometimes like fire and the glorious sunsets and the figtrees
in the Alameda gardens yes and all the queer little streets and the
pink and blue and yellow houses and the rosegardens and the jessamine
and geraniums and cactuses and Gibraltar as a girl where I was a
Flower of the mountain yes when I put the rose in my hair like the
Andalusian girls used or shall I wear a red yes and how he kissed me
under the Moorish wall and I thought well as well him as another and
then I asked him with my eyes to ask again yes and then he asked me
would I yes to say yes my mountain flower and first I put my arms
around him yes and drew him down to me so he could feel my breasts all
perfume yes and his heart was going like mad and yes I said yes I will
Yes.

