Know then, answered the Wazir, that after the return of the Ass the
merchant came out on the terrace roof with his wife and family, for it
was a moonlit night and the moon at its full.

The wretched beast went forward like a thing possessed, over what
seemed to be a limitless expanse of moonlit sand.

He was wandering up and down moonlit streets, kissing cooks.

Presently another band of horsemen came, and another, until all the
moonlit streets were full of armed men.

It is found in _Don Juan_, and it begins as follows: 'T is sweet to
hear At midnight on the blue and moonlit deep The song and oar of
Adria's gondolier, By distance mellow'd, o'er the waters sweep; 'T is
sweet to see the evening star appear; 'T is sweet to listen, as the
night-winds creep From leaf to leaf; 't is sweet to view on high The
rainbow, based on ocean, span the sky.

Four days later, at midnight, the anchor was cast off Lisbon, after a
calm and moonlit passage up the Tagus, a passage, Fielding writes,
"incredibly pleasant to the women, who remained three hours enjoying
it, while I was left to the cooler transports of enjoying their
pleasures at second-hand; and yet, cooler as they may be, whoever is
totally ignorant of such sensation, is, at the same time, void of all
ideas of friendship.

It chanced one night as he was strolling up and down, in busy
meditation, beneath the clear, moonlit sky, he saw the diadem
sparkling at his feet.

He remembered those moonlit evenings, when, leaning back in the
victoria that was taking him to the Rue La PÃ©rouse, he would cultivate
with voluptuous enjoyment the emotions of a man in love, ignorant of
the poisoned fruit that such emotions must inevitably bear.

On a sunny day, or still more on a moonlit night, it has a fairylike
beauty.

Perhaps they all come back on moonlit nights.

Away we went back through the dull, sleeping village, back into the
broad moonlit thoroughfare.

no more; Nor more does the Nile in the moonlit calm Moan past the
Memphian shore.

"There was never a summer day, never a moonlit night, more quiet, save
when visitors come."

In the full city,--by the haunted fount,-- Through the dim grotto's
tracery of spars,-- 'Mid the pine temples, on the moonlit mount, Where
silence sits to listen to the stars; In the deep glade where dwells
the brooding dove, The painted valley, and the scented air, She heard
far echoes of the voice of Love, And found his footsteps' traces
everywhere.

All this was revealed under oath of solemn secrecy on moonlit decks,
in the dead dark, or in choking fog; the whining wheel behind them,
the climbing deck before, and without, the unresting, clamorous sea.

Albert had already made seven or eight similar excursions to the
Colosseum, while his less favored companion trod for the first time in
his life the classic ground forming the monument of Flavius Vespasian;
and, to his credit be it spoken, his mind, even amid the glib
loquacity of the guides, was duly and deeply touched with awe and
enthusiastic admiration of all he saw; and certainly no adequate
notion of these stupendous ruins can be formed save by such as have
visited them, and more especially by moonlight, at which time the vast
proportions of the building appear twice as large when viewed by the
mysterious beams of a southern moonlit sky, whose rays are
sufficiently clear and vivid to light the horizon with a glow equal to
the soft twilight of an eastern clime.

Going forth they saw the waters of Pascagoula heaped in a quivering
mound, and bright on its moonlit crest stood a mermaid that sang to
them, "Come to me, children of the sea.

Before him, on the moonlit river, was a large boat, and near it, on
the bank, he saw a company of men squatted about a fire and bousing
together from a bottle.

Their passage down the coast was very pleasant till within a day's
distance of Panama, when one bright moonlit night, April 29th, the
ship, running at full speed, between the Islands Quibo and Quicara,
struck on a sunken reef, tore out a streak in her bottom, and at once
began to fill with water.

If there are ukuleles in the world, there are also guitars, and
tomorrow it may be you and not he who sits on the moonlit porch; it
may be he and not you who arrives late.

He presently brought out his gear and, having baited the hook, made a
cast into the moonlit square, taking station in the shadow of the
walls where he believed the river bank to be.

It is intended to convey the impression which one receives when the
eye rests on a beloved landscape that calls up in one's soul beautiful
memories--for instance, on a fine, moonlit spring night.

Chopin's description of the Adagio quoted above--remember the beloved
landscape, the beautiful memories, the moonlit spring night, and the
muted violins--hits off its character admirably.

They could feel the gentle breezes which are wafted over Paris on warm
summer evenings and make you feel like going out somewhere, you care
not where, under the trees, and make you dream of moonlit rivers, of
fireflies and of larks.

In his little garden, all bathed in soft light, his fruit trees in a
row cast on the ground the shadow of their slender branches, scarcely
in full leaf, while the giant honeysuckle, clinging to the wall of his
house, exhaled a delicious sweetness, filling the warm moonlit
atmosphere with a kind of perfumed soul.

Patin got so well accustomed to Desiree's face that he thought of it
even while at sea, when throwing out his nets, in storms or in calms,
on moonlit or dark evenings.

Was I never to know ardent, feverish love in the moonlit shadows of a
summer's night?

He had seen her lying at her length quietly, her black hair scattered
on the pillow, like shadow of twigs and sprays on moonlit grass,
illuminated intermittently; smiling to him, but her heart out and
abroad, wild as any witch's.

And fainter onward, like wild birds that change Their season in the
night and wail their way From cloud to cloud, down the long wind the
dream Shrilled; but in going mingled with dim cries Far in the moonlit
haze among the hills, As of some lonely city sacked by night, When all
is lost, and wife and child with wail Pass to new lords; and Arthur
woke and called, 'Who spake?

When I saw my charmer thus come in accompanied by a cavalier, I seemed
to hear a hiss, and the green snake of jealousy, rising on undulating
coils from the moonlit balcony, glided within my waistcoat, and ate
its way in two minutes to my heart's core.

A howl of pain and terror rang through the air, while oars and
benches, arms, legs, and mutilated bodies, chained inexorably
together, floated on the moonlit waves.

She let go the casement-stay and put her hand upon his, her moonlit
face regarding him wistfully.

As they turned to the car Holmes pointed back to the moonlit sea and
shook a thoughtful head.

The "stitches" or shocks rose like tents about the yellow expanse,
those in the distance becoming lost in the moonlit hazes.

He had not wept like Edgar that last moonlit night when they said,
"To-morrow!

I do but half listen at first--watching the black figures in the
moonlit roadway pacing to and fro.

To the credulous mariners it seemed the same silent spout they had so
long ago beheld in the moonlit Atlantic and Indian Oceans.

There is that inside a young man that makes the hunting dog rise from
the hearth on a moonlit night: "Begor!

Only let you not be leaving this moonlit garden.

Only let you not be going away from me in my moonlit garden.

Let you stay here in the moonlit garden!

"Ah, little Golden Bells, there is no place in the world like your
moonlit garden."

There is no place I'd be liefer than in the moonlit garden.

What would you be doing in cold Venice, far from the warm moonlit
garden.

For instance, the very name of this place, Prior's Park, makes
everybody think of it as a moonlit mediaeval abbey; I dare say the
spiritualists by this time have discovered the ghost of a monk there.

He went to his open window, looking out over the frozen pond and the
moonlit statue in the middle of their circle of darkling woods, and
listened again.

Let me look right into your moonlit face and dwell on every line and
curve in it!

I would paint her the life and joy of the fire-side circle and the
lively summer group; I would follow her through the sultry fields at
noon, and hear the low tones of her sweet voice in the moonlit evening
walk; I would watch her in all her goodness and charity abroad, and
the smiling untiring discharge of domestic duties at home; I would
paint her and her dead sister's child happy in their love for one
another, and passing whole hours together in picturing the friends
whom they had so sadly lost; I would summon before me, once again,
those joyous little faces that clustered round her knee, and listen to
their merry prattle; I would recall the tones of that clear laugh, and
conjure up the sympathising tear that glistened in the soft blue eye.

Thee, at the ferry, Oxford riders blithe, Returning home on summer
nights, have met Crossing the stripling Thames at Bablock-hithe,
Trailing in the cool stream thy fingers wet, As the slow punt swings
round: And leaning backwards in a pensive dream, And fostering in thy
lap a heap of flowers Pluck'd in shy fields and distant Wychwood
bowers, And thine eyes resting on the moonlit stream: And then they
land, and thou art seen no more.

Still nursing the unconquerable hope, Still clutching the inviolable
shade, With a free onward impulse brushing through, By night, the
silver'd branches of the glade-- Far on the forest-skirts, where none
pursue, On some mild pastoral slope Emerge, and resting on the moonlit
pales, Freshen they flowers, as in former years, With dew, or listen
with enchanted ears, From the dark dingles, to the nightingales.

from that moonlit cedar what a burst!

Spirits ANGEL spirits of sleep, White-robed, with silver hair, In your
meadows fair, Where the willows weep, And the sad moonbeam On the
gliding stream Writes her scatter'd dream: Angel spirits of sleep,
Dancing to the weir In the hollow roar Of its waters deep; Know ye how
men say That ye haunt no more Isle and grassy shore With your moonlit
play; That ye dance not here, White-robed spirits of sleep, All the
summer night Threading dances light?

Few western wonders are more inspiring than the beauties of an Arizona
moonlit landscape; the silvered mountains in the distance, the strange
lights and shadows upon hog back and arroyo, and the grotesque details
of the stiff, yet beautiful cacti form a picture at once enchanting
and inspiring; as though one were catching for the first time a
glimpse of some dead and forgotten world, so different is it from the
aspect of any other spot upon our earth.

There was two little kiddies in the Carter family whom I had loved and
who had thought there was no one on Earth like Uncle Jack; I could see
them just as plainly, as I stood there under the moonlit skies of
Barsoom, and I longed for them as I had never longed for any mortals
before.

I did not answer, but instead reached to my side and pressed the
little fingers of her I loved where they clung to me for support, and
then, in unbroken silence, we sped over the yellow, moonlit moss; each
of us occupied with his own thoughts.

Before me was a small patch of moonlit sky which showed through a
ragged aperture.

~~~ End of Text ~~~ ====== TO MARIE LOUISE (SHEW) NOT long ago, the
writer of these lines, In the mad pride of intellectuality, Maintained
"the power of words"--denied that ever A thought arose within the
human brain Beyond the utterance of the human tongue: And now, as if
in mockery of that boast, Two words-two foreign soft dissyllables--
Italian tones, made only to be murmured By angels dreaming in the
moonlit "dew That hangs like chains of pearl on Hermon hill,"-- Have
stirred from out the abysses of his heart, Unthought-like thoughts
that are the souls of thought, Richer, far wider, far diviner visions
Than even the seraph harper, Israfel, (Who has "the sweetest voice of
all God's creatures") Could hope to utter.

No, I don't work every night - only moonlit nights, and then no longer
than the moon shines upon my wheel.

Both on the outward and on the homeward journey he measured distance
by this landmark: and in his imagination he lived through a long train
of adventures, marvellous as those in the book itself, towards the
close of which there appeared an image of himself, grown older and
sadder, standing in a moonlit garden with Mercedes who had so many
years before slighted his love, and with a sadly proud gesture of
refusal, saying: --Madam, I never eat muscatel grapes.

He saw again the small white house and the garden of rose-bushes on
the road that led to the mountains and he remembered the sadly proud
gesture of refusal which he was to make there, standing with her in
the moonlit garden after years of estrangement and adventure.

It was a moonlit, quiet, fresh night; a vehicle rattled past, and then
all was still.

Nekhludoff gazed at the roof, the moonlit garden, and the shadows of
the poplar, and drank in the fresh, invigorating air.

He knew that, in real life, Frank and Di Vernon would never have met
again after that farewell on the moonlit road.

The twelve strokes floated up to Jane's window across the moonlit
park.

There in the middle of the moonlit valley below them stood the
"ha'nted" house, utterly isolated, its fences gone long ago, rank
weeds smothering the very doorsteps, the chimney crumbled to ruin, the
window-sashes vacant, a corner of the roof caved in.

He loved driving his spirited horses along the lonely, moonlit roads,
and she loved to sit on the box-seat, with the soft air of an English
late summer's night fanning her face after the hot atmosphere of a
ball or supper-party.

Her large, blue eyes were looking at the moonlit scene round her with
a scared and terrified look; they rested with a mixture of horror and
pity on the Jew, whose luckless fate and wild howls had been the first
signs that struck her, with her returning senses; then she caught
sight of Chauvelin, in his neat, dark clothes, which seemed hardly
crumpled after the stirring events of the last few hours.

She had lost count of time; dreamily she looked up at the moonlit sky,
and listened to the monotonous roll of the waves.

Over the utmost hill at length I sped, _1720 A snowy steep:--the moon
was hanging low Over the Asian mountains, and outspread The plain, the
City, and the Camp below, Skirted the midnight Ocean's glimmering
flow; The City's moonlit spires and myriad lamps, _1725 Like stars in
a sublunar sky did glow, And fires blazed far amid the scattered
camps, Like springs of flame, which burst where'er swift Earthquake
stamps.

Then with one more look at this veiled and spiritualised loveliness--
which was so perfect and so pure that one might almost fancy that the
light of a living spirit shone through the marble prison to lead man
on to high and ethereal thoughts--this poet's dream of beauty frozen
into stone, which I shall never forget while I live, we turned and
went back through the vast moonlit courts to the spot whence we had
started.

The features were set, however, in a horrible smile, a fixed and
unnatural grin, which in that still and moonlit room was more jarring
to the nerves than any scowl or contortion.

It was now a beautiful, moonlit night.

For a time no one turned back toward the thing that had frightened
them, but Tarzan knew that they would in a moment, and when they
discovered that it was but the dead body of their sentry, while they
would doubtless be still further terrified, he had a rather definite
idea as to what they would do, and so he faded silently away toward
the south, taking the moonlit upper terrace back toward the camp of
the Waziri.

she murmured, for now, silhouetted against the moonlit sky beyond, she
saw framed in the tiny square of the latticed window the head of a
huge lioness.

He had, in fact, ridden quite at random for over an hour, taking any
turning that came to hand in order to prolong companionship with her,
and giving far more attention to Tess's moonlit person than to any
wayside object.

Walking among the sleeping birds in the hedges, watching the skipping
rabbits on a moonlit warren, or standing under a pheasant-laden bough,
she looked upon herself as a figure of Guilt intruding into the haunts
of Innocence.

As they crept along, stooping low to discern the plant, a soft yellow
gleam was reflected from the buttercups into their shaded faces,
giving them an elfish, moonlit aspect, though the sun was pouring upon
their backs in all the strength of noon.

Not a creature seemed to be stirring in that moonlit world.

I remember running violently in and out among the moonlit bushes all
round the sphinx, and startling some white animal that, in the dim
light, I took for a small deer.

This time, as the distance was short, I did not mount, but ran with
Dogger's stirrup-leather to the lodge gates and up the long, leafless,
moonlit avenue to where the white line of the hall buildings looked on
either hand on great old gardens.

A moonlit nightcall: far, far.

were upon the hearts of each as they walked pensively home through
moonlit courts and cloisters.

Through the trees the mouth of the alley could be seen, opening out on
a moonlit glade.

He passed out of the forest and into the moonlit open where were no
shadows nor darknesses.

So rode they without tarrying into Westgate and came to the Bar, and
speedily was the gate opened to them; and anon were they on the
moonlit road outside of Whitwall.

We have no tent nor covering of any kind except the branches of the
tree under which we may happen to lie; and it is a pretty sight to
look up and see every branch, leaf, and twig of the tree stand out,
reflected against the clear star-spangled and moonlit sky.

